
  
    
      
        Background
        Plasma membrane microparticles (MP) of endothelial
        origin have been identified in normal human blood [ 1 2 3 ]
        and increased counts of MP carrying endothelial antigens
        were documented in the blood of patients with lupus
        anticoagulant [ 1 ] , acute coronary syndrome [ 4 ] ,
        thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura [ 5 ] or in patients
        with exacerbated multiple sclerosis [ 6 ] . Similarly to
        blood platelets, endothelial cells release MP which express
        phosphatidylserine (PS) on their surface. PS-exposing MP in
        blood appear to act as the catalytic surface for assembly
        of the prothrombinase complex [ 7 ] . Although circulating
        MP of various cellular origin in patient with sepsis were
        reported to be procoagulant through multiple mechanisms [ 8
        9 ] , in healthy individuals they may have an anticoagulant
        function by promoting the generation of low amounts of
        thrombin that activate protein C [ 2 ] .
        The process of membrane vesiculation and MP-release in
        platelets has been shown to require a calpain-dependent
        dissociation of membrane proteins from the submembrane
        cytoskeleton and most likely involves intracellular
        signaling by platelet protein kinases [ 10 ] . Besides
        platelets stimulated by various agonists such as thrombin
        with collagen or the complement complex C5b-9 [ 7 11 ] , a
        release of PS-containing membrane MP was demonstrated in
        other cell types such as endotoxin-stimulated monocytes [
        12 ] , polymorphonuclear leucocytes stimulated with the
        chemotactic peptide FMLP [ 13 ] or apoptotic T-lymphocytes
        [ 14 ] . The normal restriction of PS to the inner surface
        of the plasma membrane becomes perturbed in apoptotic cells
        [ 15 16 ] . When exposed, PS is a determinant for phagocyte
        recognition of cells to be cleared. Plasma membrane
        blebbing and MP-release are generally accepted as typical
        signs of cell apoptosis [ 17 ] .
        In addition to a possible pathophysiological role of
        circulating MP, analysis of MP derived from endothelial
        cells may be a valuable diagnostic marker of vessel wall
        injury. The phospholipid-binding protein annexin V has a
        high affinity for PS [ 18 ] and is utilized in MP detection
        in blood and in cell supernatants [ 1 ] . Since very little
        is known about the mechanism of MP-release from endothelial
        cell, it is difficult to judge the type and extent of
        endothelial injury represented by increased plasma counts
        of endothelial MP. We used flow cytometry to study the
        release of annexin V-binding membrane microparticles from
        cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC)
        stimulated by various agonists. We further focused our
        study on MP-release from HUVEC after proapoptotic
        stimulation with the topoisomerase I inhibitor camptothecin
        (CPT). Since CPT analogues become one of the most promising
        new classes of antineoplastic agents introduced into the
        clinic in recent years [ 19 ] , activity of camptothecin on
        endothelial cells may be of great interest.
      
      
        Results
        
          With the exception of high concentration of
          ionophore A23187, rapid stimulation of HUVEC with various
          agonists did not result in a release of annexin V-binding
          microparticles
          Flow cytometry analysis of HUVEC culture supernatant
          demonstrated that a 30 min treatment with 10 μM ionophore
          A23187 caused the release of low counts of annexin
          V-binding MP (Fig. 1A). Similar short-time activation of
          HUVEC with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) (1 μg/mL),
          human thrombin receptor activating peptide (TRAP) 1-50
          μmol/L, human thrombin (THR) 0.1-10 NIH Unit/mL, human
          tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) 3.5 kU/mL or human
          angiotensin II (AGTII) 1 μmol/L did not cause any
          significant increase in MP-release (Fig. 1A). All of the
          agonists applied induced morphological changes in HUVEC
          seen by phase contrast light microscopy, which confirmed
          the cellular activation (not shown).
        
        
          Proapoptotic, but not proinflammatory, stimulation
          induced a release of annexin V-binding microparticles
          from HUVEC
          MP count increased overnight in the media of
          unstimulated cell culture, but this was not enhanced by
          TNFα (1000 U/ mL) or by LPS (10 μg/mL). However, when
          cells were activated with TNFα in the presence of
          cycloheximide (50 μg/mL) to promote apoptosis [ 20 ] , a
          dramatic increase in MP count was observed, as compared
          to TNFα or cycloheximide treatment alone (Fig. 1B).
          Similarly, induction of apoptosis with 5 μM CPT, a
          topoisomerase I inhibitor [ 19 ] , led to a release of
          annexin V-binding MP which was prevented by ZVAD. ZVAD
          also inhibited a release of MP from unstimulated cells,
          which probably represents spontaneous apoptosis of
          cultured HUVEC (Fig. 1B).
        
        
          MP-release did not correlate with the level of cell
          apoptosis in HUVEC stimulated with camptothecin
          Phase contrast microscopy showed that HUVEC culture
          treated for 24 hrs with 5 μM CPT (Fig. 2C) lost
          confluence with about 30-40% cells remaining adherent.
          The level of apoptosis of adherent cells was assessed by
          using TUNEL and annexin V-FITC/ propidium iodide assays
          (Fig 3). Approximately one third of the remaining
          adherent cells showed annexin V-binding (Fig. 3B) and
          DNA-fragmentation (TUNEL-positivity) (Fig. 3C).
          Interestingly, a ten times lower concentration of CPT
          (500 nM) also induced significant MP-release after only 4
          hrs of treatment (Fig. 3A) and after 24 hrs, 500 nM
          camptothecin induced MP-release comparable to 5 μM CPT
          treatment, but without any significant increase in
          annexin V-binding to the cells or DNA-fragmentation (Fig.
          3B,3C). The cell culture was still confluent (Fig. 2B)
          with about 20-30% lower cell density as compared with
          0.5% DMSO treated HUVEC (Fig. 2A). This result indicates
          that MP-release is not related to cell desquamation. To
          investigate whether maturation of the cell culture
          influences the degree of MP-release from HUVEC in
          response to CPT, we compared MP-release from subconfluent
          HUVEC (50% of confluence) at 24 hrs in culture, HUVEC
          reaching confluence at 48 hrs in culture and overgrown
          HUVEC at 72 hrs in culture. Our results showed that
          MP-release in response to CPT declined with culture
          maturation. There was also a change of the sensitivity of
          overgrown HUVEC to CPT treatment in confluent 72 hrs old
          culture resulting in the higher concentration of CPT (5
          μM) releasing higher levels of MP (Fig. 4). In growing
          culture at 24 hrs, 500 nM CPT caused even higher
          MP-release than 5 μM CPT. In confluent HUVEC 48 hrs old,
          the MP-release induced by 500 nM and 5 μM CPT was not
          significantly different (Fig. 4).
        
        
          Endothelial antigens CD 105 and CD 59 were both
          expressed on living cells, apoptotic bodies and other
          cell fragments in CPT treated HUVEC culture but CD 105
          was absent on 50% of annexin V-binding membrane
          microparticles
          Using flow cytometry, in SSC vs. FSC plot we gated
          homogeneous population of single living cells (G1 on Fig.
          5A), which appeared negative in propidium iodide staining
          (Fig. 5B). Living cells from control cultures as well as
          from cultures treated with CPT were strongly positive for
          both antigens CD 105 and CD 59 (Fig. 5C). Expression of
          CD59 on endothelial cells was not influenced by 24 hrs
          incubation with 500nM or 5μM CPT as compared with control
          cells incubated with 0.5% DMSO. Expression of CD105 was
          only slightly decreased on CPT treated cells. Cell
          fragments > 4 μm in size as compared with standard
          beads were gated separately (G2 on Fig. 5A). Larger cell
          fragments appeared positive in propidium iodide staining
          (Fig. 5B). All analyzed cell fragments were positive for
          CD59 and also expressed CD 105 (Fig. 5D). Comparison of
          areas under the different peaks on the histogram (Fig.
          5C,5D) indicates that the portion of cell fragments
          corresponding to apoptotic bodies and necrotic cells was
          significantly higher in culture treated with 5 μM CPT as
          compared to culture treated with 500 nM CPT or with 0.5%
          DMSO alone. In a separate protocol we analyzed the
          expression of CD 59 and CD 105 on membrane MP. Comparison
          of FSC values of standard beads and analyzed MP showed
          that 95% of annexin V-binding MP released from HUVEC were
          < 1 μm in size (range 0.3 - 3.0 μm). Analyzed MP were
          free of nucleic acids as they were not stained with
          propidium iodide (not shown). Double-labeling flow
          cytometry assay showed that all annexin V-binding
          membrane MP expressed CD59 but only approximately 50% of
          these expressed CD 105 (Fig. 6).
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Our previous study demonstrated that cultured HUVEC
        released annexin V-binding membrane MP in response to
        proapoptotic stimulation with CPT [ 3 ] . In the present
        study, we investigated whether endothelial cells release
        membrane MP after rapid stimulation with Ca 2+-mobilizing
        agents or after overnight stimulation with proinflammatory
        agents TNFα and LPS, or only after induction of apoptosis.
        Our negative results with thrombin, TRAP, PMA, TPA and
        AGTII indicate that rapid Ca 2+-mobilization, despite
        dramatic morphological changes of the cells, does not
        result in MP-release from HUVEC (Fig. 1A). The only report
        showing MP-release after rapid stimulation with a
        physiologic agonist is the study by Hamilton 
        et al . [ 21 ] that demonstrated
        MP-release from HUVEC with the complement complex C5b-9.
        This membrane-attack complex may destabilize cell membrane
        by generating pores in phospholipid bilayer. We observed
        MP-release from HUVEC after short-time treatment only with
        high concentrations (10 μM) of A23187. In this experiment,
        a direct destabilizing effect of the Ca 2+-ionophore A23187
        on cell membrane resulting in MP formation is also likely.
        Another question is relation of plasma membrane blebbing
        and MP-release. One study documented peroxide-induced
        membrane blebbing after a short time stimulation of
        endothelial cells [ 22 ] . Although MP-release was not
        investigated, authors showed micrographs of stimulated
        cells with membrane blebs of about 3 μm in diameter. Size
        of majority of MP produced in our experiments is less than
        1μm. This difference indicates that the mechanism of
        MP-release may be different from membrane blebbing visually
        observed on cells by conventional light microscopy.
        We did not find any significant MP-release from HUVEC
        after overnight stimulation with TNFα (Fig. 1B) although
        stimulation of the HUVEC culture was confirmed by
        upregulation of CD 54 on cell surface (not shown). In
        comparison, Combes 
        et al . [ 1 ] recorded a four fold
        increase in MP count in HUVEC culture stimulated overnight
        with TNFα when compared to control cells. These discrepant
        results may stem from differences in HUVEC culture
        conditions and the flow cytometric assay. In our study, the
        proapoptotic stimulation was the only efficient way to
        release membrane MP from HUVEC. Since MP-release from
        endothelial cells after proapoptotic stimulation was not
        studied before, we focused on its characterization. We used
        CPT, an inhibitor of topoisomerase I, that is a well
        defined apoptogenic agent belonging to a promising class of
        antineoplastic drugs [ 23 ] . In contrast to more
        physiological stimuli (i.e, oxidative stress) induction of
        apoptosis by CPT is less complex and thus is a better model
        for study of MP-release phenomenon. Our results showed that
        the growth stage of HUVEC culture influenced MP release in
        response to CPT (Fig. 4). It is difficult to understand why
        500 nM CPT caused higher MP-release than 5 μM CPT in
        subconfluent HUVEC. This difference is small and may be
        influenced by error of analysis. It is evident, however,
        that cell culture maturation increased resistance to
        camptothecin treatment. This may be related to decreased
        DNA synthesis in mature confluent HUVEC.
        Size distribution of annexin V-binding MP released from
        HUVEC after proapoptotic stimulation was similar to that of
        endothelial MP found in blood [ 1 ] . The small size and
        the absence of nucleic acids indicate that the analyzed MP
        are different from apoptotic bodies formed in the terminal
        stage of apoptosis. Our finding of CD59+ CD105+ and
        CD59+CD105- populations of MP (Fig. 6) suggests that HUVEC
        can release different types of annexin V-binding MP with
        respect to their antigen expression. This observation
        cautions against the use of a single antigen for detection
        of endothelial MP in blood. The presence of CD59 on all
        annexin V-binding MP corresponds to the high expression of
        this glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchored glycoprotein on
        endothelial cells. The homodimeric transmembrane
        glycoprotein CD 105 (endoglin) is relatively specific for
        endothelial cells and is abundant with more than 500,000
        copies per cell on HUVEC [ 24 ] . It is not clear, however,
        why they are CD59-positive MP that express CD105 and some
        that do not (Fig. 6). Although CD 105 was shown to be an
        endothelial cell proliferation marker [ 25 ] , its
        expression was only slightly decreased on CPT treated cells
        (Fig. 5C) and was stable on overgrown confluent HUVEC up to
        96 hrs in culture (not shown). We also found this antigen
        on cell fragments, including apoptotic bodies (Fig. 5D).
        Since CD59 is a protein with an important complement
        regulatory function, and CD105 is a component of the
        receptor for TGFβ, there may be functional and/or
        diagnostic differences in the MP populations.
        It is generally accepted that appearance of PS on the
        outside of the plasma membrane is an early sign of
        apoptosis in many cell types after different treatments [
        26 ] . Chan 
        et al [ 27 ] showed that exposure of
        PS on the cell surface preceded DNA strand breaks in
        apoptosis of different cell lines. Cell membrane
        vesiculation and release of MP is considered to belong to
        the execution stage of apoptosis where the fate of the cell
        is sealed. To our surprise, in CPT treated HUVEC the
        MP-release did not correlate with the extent cell
        desquamation and apoptosis or remaining adherent cells
        characterized by PS exposure on the cell membrane and
        DNA-fragmentation (TUNEL) (Fig. 3). In contrast, Aupeix 
        et al . [ 17 ] reported that the
        release of PS-containing MP was proportional to hypodiploid
        DNA in THP-1 and U-937 cells stimulated by various
        apoptotic agents. Our experiments with 500 nM CPT treated
        HUVEC indicate that annexin V-binding MP may be released
        from adherent cells at initial phase of apoptosis before
        exposure of PS on cell surface or DNA fragmentation. Cell
        desquamation and massive formation of apoptotic bodies seen
        after 5 μM CPT treatment did not further enhance the
        MP-release (Fig. 3) thus supporting the hypothesis that
        annexin V-binding MP-release takes place in the initial
        phase of apoptosis. The essential step in plasma membrane
        destabilization and MP-release very likely is a
        caspase-dependent sphingomyelin hydrolysis, which leads to
        the production of ceramide [ 28 29 30 ] . It is possible,
        however, that sphingomyelin hydrolysis and MP-release may
        be a consequence of the action of initiator caspases or
        other ZVAD sensitive proteases rather than only executioner
        caspases [ 15 31 32 ] . Our study was performed in HUVEC
        culture, which may have particular properties in respect of
        MP release when compared with endothelial cells from other
        organs. Our finding that the PS is not exposed on the cells
        treated with low concentration of CPT while they release
        PS-containing MP may suggests that these cells release MP
        to remove PS from the cell surface as a protective
        mechanism that may counteract proapoptotic stimulation in
        the life/death decision process.
      
      
        Conclusions
        Our results demonstrate that HUVEC release different
        populations of annexin V-binding membrane MP in response to
        proapoptotic stimulation. We showed that rapid stimulation
        of HUVEC with thrombin, PMA, TPA or AGT II or overnight
        stimulation with TNFα or LPS does not induce release of
        annexin V-binding membrane MP. Release of MP after
        treatment with camptothecin very likely occurs at early
        stage prior to a "point of no return" in apoptosis. This
        phenomenon may represent a physiologic repair process
        rather then be a part of apoptotic cell death.
      
      
        Materials and methods
        
          Monoclonal antibodies
          Phycoerythrin (PE) conjugated IgG2a isotype control
          (IgG-IC) was obtained from Immunotech, (Marseille,
          France). Mab to human CD59 (PE-conjugated, clone MEM 43)
          was from Caltag Lab. (Burlingame, CA), Mab to human CD105
          (PE-conjugated, clone N1-3A1) was from Ancell/Alexis (San
          Diego, CA).
        
        
          Endothelial cell culture
          HUVEC were obtained from Clonetics (San Diego, CA) and
          cultured in endothelial cell growth media EGM-2
          (Clonetics) containing 2% of fetal bovine serum and
          supplements. Cells of 2 ndpassage were used in the
          experiments. Cells were seeded at a density of 10,000
          cells/cm 2in polystyrene Falcon six-well plates or 60 mm
          dishes (Becton Dickinson Labware, Franklin Lakes, NJ) and
          maintained at 37°C under an atmosphere of 5% of CO 
          2 and 95% room air. Cells were used
          for experiments at 48 hrs in culture when they reached
          confluence. For apoptotic assays, treated culture was
          washed with Hanks' balanced salt solution (HBSS) with
          0.35% bovine serum albumin (HBSS/BSA) and adherent cells
          were harvested with 20 mM HEPES buffer with 100 mM NaCl,
          0.5% BSA and 10 mM EDTA, pH 7.4. After harvest, cells
          were centrifuged (300 g/5 min), washed with HBSS/BSA and
          used for analysis.
        
        
          Phase contrast microscopy
          HUVEC cultures in 6-well plates were photographed
          using CK40 Olympus culture microscope (Olympus, Japan)
          with a SPOT camera and software (Diagnostic Instruments,
          Inc., MI, USA). Phase contrast at 200× magnification was
          used. The culture cell density was estimated by visual
          counting of cells in a standard area on the
          micrographs.
        
        
          Overnight stimulation of HUVEC
          Confluent HUVEC were washed with HBSS and incubated
          for 24 hrs at 37°C with various agonists in the medium:
          MEDIUM only; DMSO 0.5 % (vehicle for camptothecin); tumor
          necrosis factor-α (TNF) from Alexis Biochemicals (San
          Diego, CA) 100 or 1000 U/mL; cycloheximide (CHX) 50
          μg/mL; TNF 1000 U/mL with cycloheximide 50 μg/mL
          (TNF/CHX); lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 
          E. coli 055:B5 from Calbiochem (San
          Diego, CA) 10 μg/mL; camptothecin (CPT) from Sigma (St.
          Louis, MO) 5 μmol/L or 500 nmol/L; CPT with caspase
          inhibitor Z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone (ZVAD) from
          Calbiochem (San Diego, CA) 50 μmol/L or ZVAD 50 μmol/L
          alone. After incubation, media and cells were harvested
          for analysis.
          In a study of MP-release in subconfluent, confluent
          and overgrown HUVEC culture, the cells at 24 hrs (50% of
          confluence), 48 hrs (reaching confluence) or 72 hrs
          (overgrown) in culture were incubated for 24 hrs with 0.5
          % DMSO, 500 nM or 5 μM CPT in medium. After incubation
          supernatant from cell culture was harvested and annexin
          V-FITC-binding MP were counted.
          In a study of expression of CD59 and CD105 on
          endothelial cells, apoptotic bodies and other cell
          fragments, the confluent HUVEC at 48 hrs in culture were
          treated for 24 hrs with 0.5% DMSO, 500 nM or 5 μM CPT in
          medium. After treatment the cell culture supernatant was
          separated, adherent cells were harvested with 20 mM HEPES
          buffer with 100 mM NaCl, 0.5% BSA and 10 mM EDTA, pH 7.4,
          and pooled with culture supernatant. This mixture of
          cells, apoptotic bodies and other cell fragments was
          centrifuged (300 g/5 min), washed with HBSS/BSA, labeled
          in aliquots with saturating concentration of
          PE-conjugated Mab against CD105 or CD59, washed again in
          HBSS/BSA and analyzed by flow cytometry.
        
        
          Short-time stimulation of HUVEC
          Confluent HUVEC were washed with HBSS and incubated
          for 30 min at 37°C with various agonists in HBSS with
          0.35%BSA: HBSS alone; 0.5 % dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO);
          ionophore A23187 1-100 μmol/L; phorbol myristate acetate
          (PMA) 1 μg/mL; human thrombin receptor activating peptide
          SFLLRNP (TRAP) 1-50 μmol/L; human thrombin (THR) US FDA
          standard lot J (Bethesda, MD) 0.1-10 NIH Unit/mL; human
          tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) 3.5 kU/mL or human
          angiotensin II (AGTII) 1 μmol/L. All chemicals were from
          Calbiochem (San Diego, CA) unless otherwise stated. After
          incubation, cell cultures were observed by phase contrast
          microscopy and cell supernatants were collected for MP
          analysis.
        
        
          Annexin V-labeling of microparticles
          One hundred μL of medium or cell culture supernatant
          were incubated with 4 μL of annexin V-FITC from BD
          PharMingen (San Diego, CA) for 20 min at room temperature
          with or without 50 mM EDTA to estimate the non-specific
          binding. Fifty μL of labeled MP were added to TruCount
          tubes (Becton Dickinson) containing standard beads in 450
          μL of HBSS/BSA solution. Samples were immediately
          analyzed with flow cytometry.
        
        
          Immunolabeling of annexin V-binding
          microparticles
          Medium or cell supernatant containing MP were
          centrifuged at 2,700 g for 5 min, and the sediment was
          discarded. Supernatant was further centrifuged at 19,800
          g for 5 min at 10°C, and sedimented MP were resuspended
          in the original volume of HBSS/BSA. Aliquots of 50 μL
          were incubated for 20 min at room temperature with 2 μL
          of annexin V-FITC from BD Pharmingen (San Diego, CA) and
          saturating concentrations of PE-conjugated Mab. After
          incubation and washing with 1 mL HBSS/BSA (centrifuged at
          19,800 g for 5 min at 10°C) samples were diluted with 450
          μL HBSS/BSA and analyzed by flow cytometry.
        
        
          Flow cytometry of endothelial cells and cell
          fragments
          Cell samples were analyzed by a FACScan flow cytometer
          (Becton Dickinson, San Diego, CA) equipped with CELLQUEST
          software with forward scatter (FSC) and side scatter
          (SSC) in linear mode setting. Samples were analyzed using
          forward scatter (FSC) vs. side scatter (SSC) plot and
          propidium iodide (PI) fluorescence vs. FSC plot. Single
          cells were gated separately in gate G1 and apoptotic
          bodies and other cell fragment in gate G2 (Fig. 5). Count
          of 10,000 gated particles was analyzed for each sample.
          Apoptotic status of cells was assayed using Annexin
          V-FITC Apoptosis Detection Kit for annexin V/ propidium
          iodide cell labeling and using Apo-Direct Kit for
          terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase dUTP-FITC nick end
          labeling (TUNEL) according to manufacturer's instruction
          (BD Pharmingen, San Diego, CA). Percentages of propidium
          iodide-negative cells binding annexin V and
          TUNEL-positive cells were evaluated. In a study of the
          expression of CD59 and CD105 on HUVEC, histograms showing
          expression of CD105 and CD59 on cells (G1) and cell
          fragments (G2) are presented. Binding of the IgG2a
          isotype control (IgG-IC) corresponded to the fluorescence
          of nonlabeled cells and cell fragments. Standard Quantum
          TM24 beads (Flow Cytometry Standards, San Juan, PR) were
          run each day as a separate sample to standardize
          fluorescence readings.
        
        
          Flow cytometry analysis of endothelial cell
          membrane microparticles
          MP were analyzed in a separate protocol [ 3 ] using a
          modified method of Combes et al. [ 1 ] . Annexin
          V-FITC-positive MP were gated in a SSC vs. fluorescence
          logarithmic plot. For MP quantitation, TruCount beads
          from Becton Dickinson (San Diego, CA) were used in each
          sample as an internal standard. TruCount beads were gated
          in a SSC vs. FSC logarithmic plot and analysis was
          stopped when 5,000 beads were counted. MP count released
          by 10 3cells was calculated for each sample. TetraSpeck
          fluorescent microsphere standards of 0.2, 0.5, 1.0 and
          4.0 μm in diameter from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR)
          were used to estimate MP size based on comparison of FSC
          values. Antigen expression on MP was analyzed by
          double-labeling with annexin V-FITC and PE-conjugated
          Mabs. The annexin V-FITC-positive MP were gated, and
          their binding of PE-labeled Mabs was evaluated in SSC vs.
          PE - fluorescence logarithmic plots.
        
      
      
        Abbreviations
        AGTII, angiotensin II; BSA, bovine serum albumin; CHX,
        cycloheximide; CPT, camptothecin; DMSO, dimethyl sulfoxide;
        FITC, fluorescein isothiocyanate; HBSS, Hanks' balanced
        salt solution; HUVEC, human umbilical vein endothelial
        cells; IC-IgG, IgG isotype control; Mab, monoclonal
        antibody; MP, microparticles; PE, phycoerythrin; PI,
        propidium iodide; PMA, phorbol-myristate-acetate; PS,
        phosphatidylserine; TRAP, thrombin receptor activating
        peptide (SFLLRNP); TNF, tumor necrosis factor; TPA, tissue
        plasminogen activator; TUNEL, terminal
        deoxynucleotidyltransferase dUTP nick end labeling; ZVAD,
        Z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone.
      
      
        Authors' contributions
        Author JŠ participated in the design of the study and
        carried out tissue culture and flow cytometry experiments.
        Author KH participated in flow cytometry experiments and in
        the design of the study. Author JGV participated in the
        design of the study and in its coordination.
      
    
  
