
  
    
      
        Background
        Among the many approaches to identifying functional
        relationships among genes, the use of bibliographic data to
        group genes that are functionally related has recently
        attracted great attention. The huge repository of
        biological literature, which is still growing at a rapid
        pace, makes it increasingly difficult for any individual to
        monitor exhaustively the constituent items related to a
        specific biological process. Therefore, automated data
        mining systems for biological literature are becoming a
        necessity.
        The availability of biomedical literature in electronic
        format has made it possible to implement automatic text
        processing methods to expose implicit relationships among
        different documents, and more importantly, the functional
        relationships among the molecules and processes that these
        documents describe.
        Shatkay 
        et al [ 1 ] proposed a method, which
        we denote as the "kernel document method", and applied it
        to the identification of functional relationships among
        yeast genes. Briefly, for each gene, a kernel document is
        carefully selected to establish a one-to-one correspondence
        between a gene and a kernel document. A set of "related
        documents" associated with each kernel document is
        identified using statistical information retrieval methods.
        The extent to which the two sets of related documents
        corresponding to each of a pair of kernel documents overlap
        reflects the relevance of these two kernel documents, and
        hence the possible functional relatedness of the
        corresponding genes.
        The utility of this method relies heavily on the quality
        of the kernel documents. In this context, a good kernel
        document should focus on the functions of a gene, instead
        of on other topics such as the methods or techniques used
        to identify or study the gene. With carefully selected
        kernel documents, the relatedness of this gene to others
        can be made reliant on functional rather than, e.g.,
        structural characteristics. For example, if the topic of
        one kernel document is "studying gene A by method X", and
        the topic of the other kernel document is "studying gene B
        by method X", two functionally unrelated genes A and B
        could be related to one another simply because they have
        both been studied by method X. Avoiding such "false
        positives" is a challenge in applying this method. The
        selection of functionally-descriptive kernel documents is,
        therefore, a key to the success of this algorithm.
        In the original kernel document method, all documents
        that are related to two kernel documents are weighted
        equally in establishing the qualitative and quantative
        aspects of relationship between these two kernel documents.
        A better practice is to give each document a weight
        reflecting the relative uniqueness of this document's
        relationship to the kernel documents. A document that is
        related to only a few kernel documents is given a greater
        weight than one that is related to many kernel documents.
        This argument can be illustrated with an intuitive example:
        if you are asked to identify two people from a crowd, it is
        not very helpful if the only information you are given is
        that each of the two has a nose. However, if you are told
        that each of the two has a mole on the forehead, it will
        not be too difficult to single them out. This is because
        "having a nose" is a feature common to almost everybody.
        But the description that each of two people has a mole on
        the forehead, an uncommon feature, is an important piece of
        information that can be used to establish a link between
        the two people.
        The kernel document method was initially applied to
        yeast genes. Intense, relatively long-standing analysis of
        yeast genetics has resulted in a large number of PubMed
        entries on these genes. Whether the kernel document method
        could be applied to other less abundantly represented
        genes, such as human genes, was not known. Here we will
        apply this method to human genes, and show that this method
        can indeed produce meaningful results when applied to human
        genes.
        A potential limitation of the original kernel document
        method is that only one kernel document is chosen for each
        gene. Many genes encode multi-functional proteins, and one
        kernel document might relate only to a certain aspect of
        the gene's many functions. We addressed this problem by
        selecting multiple kernel documents for a gene, so that any
        known function of the gene would be discussed in at least
        one of these kernel documents.
        Jenssen 
        et al [ 2 ] took a different
        approach. They analyzed the titles and abstracts of MEDLINE
        records to look for co-occurrence of gene symbols. The
        results are available at PubGene http://www.pubgene.org.
        This approach is based on the assumption that if two gene
        symbols appear in the same MEDLINE record, the genes are
        likely to be related. Furthermore, the number of papers in
        which the pair of genes both appear is used to assess the
        strength of relationships between the two genes. Jenssen 
        et al manually examined 1,000
        randomly selected pairs from the network of genes that had
        been created using this method: the proportion of incorrect
        (biologically meaningless) pairs were 40% for the
        low-weight category and 29% for the high-weight category.
        The main advantage of this method in comparison with the
        kernel document method is that it avoids the difficulty of
        selecting an appropriate kernel document. However, this
        method cannot identify genes that are functionally related,
        but are not mentioned together in any MEDLINE abstract.
        Such implicit relationships between genes are inherently
        more interesting in the context of mechanism/pathway
        discovery by computation.
        In this paper, we employ a method that is based upon the
        kernel document concept, with several enhancements. First,
        instead of choosing one kernel document for each gene, we
        employ all of the reference articles cited for each gene
        symbol in OMIM. Admittedly, not all of these articles are
        good candidates for kernel documents. However, the
        reference articles cited under each OMIM entry are a set of
        documents selected by investigators familiar with the gene
        and are, therefore, related to the gene in some way.
        Furthermore, by a simple examination of the titles of the
        articles for keywords alluding to methods or techniques,
        many articles that would be likely to constitute false
        positives in this context are excluded. Second, instead of
        weighing each related article equally, a weight is
        calculated for each article that is related to two or more
        kernel documents. We call these articles "base vector
        documents", because eventually a kernel document will be
        represented by a vector whose elements are determined by
        whether it is related to a base vector document. The more
        kernel documents a base vector document is related to, the
        less its weight.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Data Preparation
          
            1. Download the list of OMIM genes
            The OMIM gene list can be downloaded from NCBI
            http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Omim/Index/genetable.html.
            This list is inserted into a relational database table,
            which consists of only two fields: the symbol of a
            gene, and the corresponding OMIM identification number
            (OMIMID). However, due to inconsistencies in gene
            naming and use conventions, several gene symbols may
            correspond to the same OMIMID.
          
          
            2. Download the references cited under each
            OMIMID
            The reference papers listed under each OMIMID are
            then downloaded. Each distinct reference paper has a
            unique PubMed identification number (PMID). The titles
            of all such PubMed papers are also obtained. The data
            are stored in another table consisting of four fields,
            OMIMID, PMID, TITLE and KEEP. The first three fields
            are self-explanatory. KEEP is a flag indicating whether
            a particular PubMed paper should be treated as a kernel
            document. As indicated earlier, methodology papers are
            generally not good candidates for kernel documents. To
            reduce the number of such false positives, a list of
            keywords/phrases that include the commonly used methods
            and techniques is compiled. If the title of a paper
            includes any of the phrases in the list, the KEEP flag
            of the paper is turned off (set to zero).
          
          
            3. Download the related documents
            We treat each reference paper whose KEEP flag is on
            as if it were a kernel document. The documents related
            to each of these reference papers can be obtained from
            NCBI
            http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/utils/pmneighbor.fcgi?pmidfepmid=PMID.
            A detailed description of the computational methods
            used by NCBI to identify related documents is available
            at
            http://www.ncbi.nim.nih.gov/PubMed/computation.html.
            The related documents (or neighbors) of a particular
            paper are listed according to their relevance to the
            paper. Documents that appear on the top of the list are
            more similar to the query than those appear near the
            bottom of the list. We keep only the PMIDs of the first
            100 related documents in the list and the data are
            stored in another table, consisting of three fields,
            PMIDK (PMID of the kernel document), PMIDN (PMID of the
            related document or the neighbor), and RANK, a number
            from 1 to 100, indicating the place a document appear
            in the list of related documents. Obviously, for any
            PMIDK, RANK = 1 if PMIDN = PMIDK, this is because a
            document is always most similar to itself.
          
        
        
          Construction of Base Vectors Documents
          Using the data obtained in the previous section, the
          base vector documents are defined. These are the
          documents that are related to at least two other
          documents and are among the 50 top-ranking related
          documents of any document. The result is inserted into
          another database table that consists of three fields: 1.
          PMID, the PubMed identifier of the base vector document;
          2. LINKED2, the number of kernel documents of which the
          specified document is a neighbor; and 3. WEIGHT, which is
          an indication of the importance of a base vector document
          in revealing the relevance between two kernel documents.
          The weight 
          w 
          
            i 
           for a base vector document 
          b 
          
            i 
           is calculated using the following equation:
          
          where 
          n 
          
            i 
           is the number of related documents for 
          b 
          
            i 
           and 
          N is the total number of kernel
          documents. This weight measurement method is based upon
          information theory [ 3 ] , and is similar to the weight
          measure employed by Wilbur 
          et al [ 4 ] to evaluate the
          significance of a specific keyword in determining the
          relatedness of two papers.
        
        
          Vector Representation of a Kernel Document
          Assuming that there are 
          M base vectors documents, 
          b 
          1 , 
          b 
          2 , . . ., 
          b 
          
            M 
           , and the weight of 
          b 
          
            i 
           is w 
          
            i 
           , then any kernel document 
          K can now be represented by a vector
          ( 
          k 
          1 , 
          k 
          2 ,..., 
          k 
          
            M 
           ), with
          
          The norm || 
          K || of a kernel document 
          K , i.e., the length of the
          corresponding vector, can be calculated as follows:
          
        
        
          Calculation of Similarity Scores
          The cosine similarity score 
          S 
          
            ij 
           of any two kernel documents 
          K 
          
            i 
           , and 
          K 
          
            j 
           can now be calculated:
          
          where
          
          and
          
          is the dot product of the two vectors 
          K 
          
            i 
           and 
          K 
          
            j 
           .
          
          S 
          
            ij 
           is between 0 and 1, i.e., 0 ≤ 
          S 
          
            ij 
           ≤ 1. The closer 
          S 
          
            ij 
           is to 1, the more similar two kernel documents 
          K 
          
            i 
           and 
          K 
          
            j 
           are.
          This is the most computationally intensive part of the
          calculation and the code is implemented in C. Once the
          similarity scores for all possible pairs of PMIDs are
          calculated, the scores are stored in a relational
          database table, and it is not necessary to recalculate
          the scores for subsequent queries.
        
        
          Gene Relationship
          The score 
          S 
          
            ij 
           calculated for two kernel documents 
          K 
          
            i 
           and 
          K 
          
            j 
           does not directly reflect the relevance of two
          genes. To assess the functional relationship between two
          genes, gene symbols must be related to PMIDs.
          In order to identify the set of genes that are
          relevant to a query gene 
          G, the PMIDs of all reference
          papers listed under the OMIMID for the query gene are
          obtained. Each of these reference papers, except any
          paper whose KEEP flag is turned off, is treated as a
          kernel document.
          There are several considerations that support this
          approach to selection of kernel documents:
          • The reference papers listed under each OMIMID were
          selected specifically because of their relevance to the
          corresponding gene;
          • The titles of these papers were screened to exclude
          those that describe commonly used methods or techniques
          in order to reduce the number of "false positives";
          • The process can be fully automated to avoid manually
          selecting kernel documents.
          An interface is provided to allow the user to
          "fine-tune" the query by manually selecting only some of
          the reference papers as kernel documents.
          Next, all documents (represented by their PMIDs) that
          are related to each kernel document with a score higher
          than a specified threshold are identified. The OMIMIDs
          that have cited papers with any of these PMIDs are
          collected. Finally, these OMIMIDs are connected to their
          respective gene symbols. The entire process is shown in
          Figure 1.
        
        
          User Interface
          A user interface is available at
          http://gene.cpmc.columbia.edu/cgi-bin/gene.cgi. Once the
          gene symbol and a cutoff score (i.e., the cosine
          similarity score between two kernel documents that
          correspond to respective genes) are entered, a list of
          reference papers cited in OMIM for the gene is displayed.
          Only those papers whose KEEP flag is turned on are shown.
          The user may select specific paper(s) from the list as
          kernel documents, or simply check the "Check All" box to
          use all these papers as kernel documents.
          Once the submit button is clicked, the genes with
          scores higher than the cutoff score are displayed.
        
      
      
        Results
        
          Summary of Raw Data
          At the time when the raw data were downloaded in July
          2001, there were 11251 gene symbols in the OMIM gene
          list, corresponding to 7192 distinct OMIMIDs. Multiple
          gene symbols may have the same OMIMID because many genes
          have aliases, resulting in several symbols referring to
          the same gene.
          Among the 7192 distinct OMIMIDs, 7085 cite reference
          paper with PMIDs, and 107 (about 1.5%) OMIMIDs do not
          cite any reference paper, or only cite reference papers
          whose PMIDs are not specified in OMIM. 54024 reference
          papers are listed under the 7085 distinct OMIMIDs. Some
          papers are referenced under several OMIMIDs, therefore,
          the actual number of distinct PMIDs is 47428.
          The title of the corresponding document for each of
          these 47428 PMIDs is also obtained. After screening the
          titles using the method described earlier, the KEEP flags
          of 3680 documents (about 7.8%) were turned off.
          Ultimately, only those 43748 documents whose KEEP flags
          are turned on will be used as kernel documents. However,
          we initially treat all 47428 documents as kernel
          documents, allowing us to estimate the extent to which
          these documents whose KEEP flags are turned off
          contribute to false positives.
          For each of the 47428 distinct PMIDs, the related
          documents ("neighbors") are obtained from NCBI. As
          indicated earlier, only the first 100 PMIDs of the list
          of related documents are stored, because they are the
          ones most related to the kernel document. The highest
          ranking neighbor of any document is, of course, itself.
          This search resulted in 4629037 pairs of neighbors, a
          number that would be much larger if all, instead of only
          the top 100, neighbors of a document are kept.
        
        
          Summary of Results of Calculation
          The preliminary search identified 437382 base vector
          documents. Any of these documents is a neighbor of at
          least two kernel documents. On average, a base vector
          document is related to 9.1 kernel documents. The average
          weight of the base vector documents is of 13.13, the
          maximum weight is 14.53, which corresponds to those base
          vector documents that are only related to two kernel
          documents; the minimum weight is 4.66, which corresponds
          to a base vector document with 1873 neighbors. As
          described in the Methods section, the weight of a base
          vector document indicates how much information is
          conveyed about the relevance of two kernel documents by
          knowing that both of them are neighbors of this
          particular base vector document. The more kernel
          documents a base vector document is related to, the less
          its weight. Figure 2shows this relationship. For example,
          a base vector document that is related to 740 kernel
          documents has a weight of 6, only half of the weight of a
          document that is related to 12 kernel documents.
          Next, the norm of each kernel document is calculated.
          There are 95 kernel documents with a norm of zero. These
          documents do not have any neighbor that is one of the
          base vector documents. As a result, only 47333 kernel
          documents are left.
          Finally, the cosine similarity score of each pair of
          kernel documents is calculated. A document is treated as
          a kernel document if its KEEP flag is on and its norm is
          greater than zero. There are 43658 such documents. Out of
          the 43658(43658-1)/2 = 952988653 possible pairs, only
          6596918 (about 0.7%) have a similarity score that is
          greater than zero, indicating some relationship between
          the two kernel documents of the pair. The average score
          is 0.04. However, if both documents of a pair are listed
          as references under the same OMIMID, the average score is
          0.14, which is much higher than the overall average
          score. This difference is expected because the documents
          listed under the same OMIMID have been selected because
          they all have some relationship to the gene that
          corresponds to the OMIMID. Furthermore, this average
          score also provides an indication of the approximate
          value of the threshold score that should be used to
          decide whether two kernel documents are closely
          related.
          Documents that discuss methods or techniques are not
          included when the similarity scores are calculated,
          because these documents can lead to false positives - a
          pair of genes with a high score that are functionally
          unrelated. To investigate the impact of such documents,
          we intentionally included them in the calculation of the
          scores. Excluding these documents when responding to a
          query is straightfoward, one needs only to check the KEEP
          flag of a document. The average similarity score of any
          pair in which both documents have a turned-off KEEP flag
          is 0.11, much higher than the overall average score 0.04
          and close to the average score among a pair of documents
          referenced by the same OMIMID, i.e., 0.14. This result
          indicates that these documents should be excluded from
          calculations designed to find functional
          relationships.
          Although documents that are likely to cause false
          positive have been excluded by the automated screening
          process described above, the screened set of documents
          may still include many that are not optimal kernel
          document candidates. A solution to this is to actually
          let the users select specific kernel documents from a
          list of documents.
        
        
          An Example
          As an illustration, we use this computational strategy
          to identify genes related to the apoptosis (programmed
          cell death) pathway in human. A brief recent review of
          this pathway has been given by DeFrancesco [ 9 ] .
          To use this strategy, it is necessary to have a gene
          to start with. This is usually a gene that is known to be
          associated with the pathway or function of interest.
          Usually, such a gene is known to the user who submits the
          query. If necessary, one can also perform a preliminary
          search of PubMed for the functions or processes of
          interest in order to obtain the name of a gene to start
          with.
          We start with APAF1, a gene known to be involved in
          the apoptosis pathway [ 8 ] . A cutoff score of 0.2 is
          employed, and all reference papers cited in OMIM for this
          gene are used as kernel documents. The analysis
          identified the list of related genes displayed in Table
          1.
          CASP1, CAPS2 and CASP3 all belong to the family of
          apoptosis-related cysteine proteases. Caspase activation
          is a key regulatory step for apoptosis [ 10 11 ] .
          DIABLO, also known as SMAC (second
          mitochondria-derived activator of caspase), promotes
          caspase activation in a cytochrome c-APAF1-CASP9 pathway
          [ 5 ] .
          The identification of XK and ABC3 is more interesting,
          because they are not well recognized as components of the
          apoptosis pathway. In order to identify the process by
          which XK was included, we retrace the search path to find
          the two original kernel documents that related APAF1 to
          XK. They are: "Apaf-1, a human protein homologous to C.
          elegans CED-4, participates in cytochrome c-dependent
          activation of caspase-3" (PMID: 9267021), a paper linked
          to APAF1; and "The ced-8 gene controls the timing of
          programmed cell death in C. elegans" (PMID: 10882128), a
          paper linked to XK. XK is a Kell blood group precursor.
          Stanfield 
          et al [ 6 ] noted that 458-amino
          acid CED8 transmembrane protein of C. elegans is weakly
          similar to the human XK protein. The CED8 and XK proteins
          share 19% amino acid identity, have similar hydropathy
          plots, and both contain 10 hydrophobic predicted
          membrane-spanning segments. CED8 functions downstream of,
          or in parallel to, the regulatory cell death gene CED9,
          and may function as a cell death effector downstream of
          the caspase encoded by programmed cell death gene, CED3.
          APAF1 is known to share amino acid similarity with CED3
          and CED4, a protein that is believed to initiate
          apoptosis in C. elegans.
          The gene ABC3 (ABC Transporter 3) is linked to APAF1
          in a manner similar to that which connects XK to APAF1.
          It is reported that CED7 protein has sequence similarity
          to ABC transporters. CED7 functions in the engulfment of
          cell remnants during programmed cell death [ 7 ] .
          There was evidence that BCL2 is a homolog of CED9:
          CED9 encodes a 280 amino acid protein showing sequence
          and structural similarity to BCL2 [ 12 ] . BCL2 is
          involved in programmed cell death [ 9 ] .
          A secondary search can be performed with each of the
          genes in Table 1. Usually, more stringent criteria is
          required for secondary searches because the genes used
          for secondary queries often have other functions not
          related to the one of interest. Kernel documents need to
          be selected more carefully, and a higher cut-off score
          might be used.
          For example, for XK, if all papers cited in OMIM for
          the particular gene are used as kernel documents, there
          are many high-score hits that do not seem to be directly
          linked to apoptosis. Among the kernel document candidates
          for XK, the title of only one of the papers mentions
          programmed cell death. The majority of papers discusses
          McLeod syndrome, which is associated with XK, but has no
          recognized relationship with apoptosis.
          Therefore, further inspection is necessary to
          determine whether these hits are really linked to the
          apoptosis pathway. To simplify the process and obtain
          better results, instead using all reference papers cited
          in OMIM for each of these genes, we manually select
          kernel documents from the list of OMIM reference papers
          for these secondary searches, using the interface
          described before. For example, in a list of more than 20
          papers cited for XK, we choose only one paper, titled
          "The ced-8 gene controls the timing of programmed cell
          death in C. elegans".
          With the results of the initial and secondary
          searches, a network of genes nominally associated with
          apoptosis can be built. The network is shown in Figure
          3.
          If necessary, further searches can be performed with
          the hits from a previous search, so that the network can
          be expanded to include more genes.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        The similarity score is the only criterion used to
        determine whether two documents are related. Any two
        documents with a similarity score above the cutoff score
        are considered to be related.
        Here we discuss how the cutoff score should be
        determined. To this end, it is necessary to investigate how
        the distribution of similarity scores differs between
        related and unrelated document pairs.
        To simplify the problem, we assume that any two
        documents that are listed as references under the same
        OMIMID are related, and that the distribution between such
        documents approximates the distribution between two related
        documents.
        For any two documents that are not listed under the same
        OMIMID, it is reasonable to assume that they are unrelated,
        because the vast majority of such documents are, in fact,
        unrelated. Therefore, we assign the score distribution for
        unrelated documents to such pairs. It should be emphasized
        that this assumption is an approximation. Indeed, the most
        interesting documents are those documents that are not
        listed under the same OMIMID, but are found through
        analysis to be related. However, this assumption makes
        finding the distribution of similarity scores among
        unrelated documents much easier.
        Table 2is a summary of the score distributions of
        related and unrelated document pairs. Note that for
        unrelated documents, 75% of the scores are less than
        0.03087, while for related documents, only 25% of the
        scores are less than 0.03027.
        The probability 
        P ( 
        S > 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         ) of the score 
        S being greater than a cutoff score, 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         , can be easily found:
        
        where 
        N ( 
        S ≤ 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         ) is the number of document pairs whose similarity
        score is not greater than the cutoff score, and 
        N is the total number of such
        pairs.
        
        P ( 
        S > 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         ) was calculated separately for those pairs in which
        both documents were listed under the same OMIMID, i.e., the
        "related documents" according to the assumption above, and
        for those pairs in which the two documents were not listed
        under the same OMIMID, i.e., the "unrelated documents"
        corresponding to our definitions. The results are shown in
        Figure 4. The solid curve is the probability 
        P ( 
        S > 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         ) for related document pairs (true positives), the
        dotted curve is the probability 
        P(S > 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         ) for unrelated document pairs (false positives).
        Using a cutoff score of 0.05, about 61% of the related
        documents will be accepted; these documents are true
        positives. About 39% of the related documents will be
        rejected; these are the false negatives. Only 14% of the
        unrelated documents will be accepted; these are the false
        positives. And, 86% of the unrelated documents will be
        rejected, these are the true negatives.
        Based on these results, the sensitivity and specificity
        of the search can be calculated. The sensitivity is the
        proportion of related document pairs that are about the
        cutoff score, and therefore are accepted. Therefore, the
        solid curve in Figure 4is also the sensitivity curve. The
        specificity is the proportion of unrelated documents that
        are below the cutoff score, and therefore are rejected.
        Specificity is equal to 1 - 
        P ( 
        S > 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         ), where 
        P ( 
        S > 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         ) is the proportion of unrelated document pairs that
        are above the cutoff score 
        S 
        
          cutoff 
         . In Figure 4, the dashed curve is the specificity
        curve.
        Figure 4can be used to determine what cutoff score to
        use for any specific purpose. For example, using a high
        cutoff score such as 0.2, the specificity will be 0.985,
        corresponding to a false positive rate of only 1.5%.
        However, the corresponding sensitivity is 0.248, so that
        above three quarters of the related documents will also be
        rejected. On the other hand, choosing a low cutoff score
        will result in many false positives, while ensuring that
        most related documents are accepted. Using a cutoff score
        of 0.03, both the sensitivity and specificity will be
        around 0.75. However, because there are often many more
        unrelated documents than related documents, the search
        result will still contain many false positives. By
        referring to Figure 4, users can select a cutoff score that
        is best suited to their needs.
      
      
        Conclusions
        The key to the success of the kernel document method is
        the selection of the kernel documents. However, this is
        also the most difficult and tedious part of the
        implementation. An efficient way to select the kernel
        documents related to gene function is necessary for a
        large-scale literature mining effort using this method. We
        started with all of the reference papers listed in OMIM,
        and applied a filter to exclude those papers that are
        likely to focus primarily on methods and techniques. We can
        either treat the rest of papers as kernel documents, or
        allow the user to select kernel documents from this small
        pool of papers (usually contain around a dozen papers).
        This process can be fully automated. Furthermore, since
        we are not limited to one kernel document per gene, a gene
        can correspond to multiple kernel documents that capture
        different aspects of its functions. This characteristic of
        the strategy makes it possible to identify genes that are
        related to the query gene through a variety of functional
        mechanisms.
        In distinction to the gene co-occurrence method used by
        Jenssen 
        et al, this approach does not require
        the symbols of two gene to appear in the title or abstract
        of the same paper in order to establish a relationship
        between them. As long as similar or related functions of
        the two genes are described in the literature, the
        relationship between the two genes is likely to be
        revealed. Furthermore, it is easier to identify the related
        functions of these genes because they are precisely those
        functions that related one gene to another by computation.
        While the co-occurrence method is biased towards revealing
        gene relationships that have been explicitly described in
        the literature, the method we propose is more sensitive to
        implicit relationships between two genes that have not
        necessarily been explicitly identified.
        The process of selecting kernel documents can also be
        improved by taking advantage of user feedback in a
        networked environment. For example, the user can be allowed
        to select kernel documents from a list of candidate papers.
        The papers selected most frequently by users can then be
        used as the bases for subsequent automatic kernel document
        selection in searches related to a specific gene or
        pathway.
        Finally, it is important to take note of the limitation
        of literature mining tools: two genes could be found to be
        related for many reasons, some of which might not be
        biologically meaningful. The identified relationships could
        therefore have different biological meanings, if any.
        Further investigation is always necessary to determine the
        origin of such relatedness. However, bibiliographic data
        mining efforts such as ours could shed light on the less
        obvious relationships between two genes. When considered in
        conjunction with other data, such as gene expression
        profiles, the results could lead to biologically meaningful
        conclusions.
      
    
  
