
  
    
      
        Background
        The overuse of antibiotics in the clinic and for
        agricultural uses has resulted in a tremendous selective
        pressure for antibiotic resistant bacteria. These bacteria
        become resistant by a number of mechanisms, such as
        producing enzymes that hydrolyze or inactivate the
        antibiotics, producing efflux pumps that transport the
        antibiotic out of the cell, or modifying their cell wall
        components so they no longer bind effectively to the
        antibiotics [ 1 2 3 ] . The most common, least expensive,
        and effective antibiotics are the β-lactam containing
        antibiotics, such as the penicillins, cephalosporins, and
        carbapenems [ 2 4 5 ] . These antibiotics are
        mechanism-based inhibitors of transpeptidase, a bacterial
        enzyme required for the production of a strong viable cell
        wall [ 6 7 ] . In response to the widespread use of
        β-lactam containing antibiotics, bacteria have acquired the
        ability to produce β-lactamases, which are enzymes that
        hydrolyze and inactivate β-lactam containing antibiotics.
        There are over 300 distinct β-lactamases known, and these
        enzymes have been grouped by a number of classification
        schemes [ 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 ] . For example, Bush has
        developed a scheme, based on the enzymes' molecular
        properties, that has four distinct β-lactamase groups [ 10
        15 ] . One of the more alarming groups are the Bush group 3
        enzymes, which are Zn(II) dependent enzymes that hydrolyze
        nearly all known β-lactam containing antibiotics and for
        which there are no or very few known clinical inhibitors [
        9 14 16 17 18 19 ] . The metallo-β-lactamases have been
        further divided by Bush into subgroups based on amino acid
        sequence identity: the Ba enzymes share a >23% sequence
        identity, require 2 Zn(II) ions for full activity, prefer
        penicillins and cephalosporins as substrates, and are
        represented by metallo-β-lactamase CcrA from 
        Bacteroides fragilis, the Bb enzymes
        share a 11% sequence identity with the Ba enzymes, require
        only 1 Zn(II) ion for full activity, prefer carbapenems as
        substrates, and are represented by the metallo-β-lactamase
        imiS from 
        Aeromonas sobria, and the Bc enzymes
        have only 9 conserved residues with the other
        metallo-β-lactamases, require 2 Zn(II) ions for activity,
        contain a different metal binding motif than the other
        metallo-β-lactamases, prefer penicillins as substrates, and
        are represented by the metallo-β-lactamase L1 from 
        Stenotrophomonas maltophilia [ 9 ] .
        A similar grouping scheme (B1, B2, and B3) based on
        structural properties of the metallo-β-lactamases has
        recently been offered [ 41 ] . The diversity of the group 3
        β-lactamases is best exemplified by the enzymes' vastly
        differing efficacies towards non-clinical inhibitors; these
        differences predict that one inhibitor may not inhibit all
        metallo-β-lactamases [ 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 ] .
        To combat this problem, we are characterizing a
        metallo-β-lactamase from each of the subgroups in an effort
        to identify a common structural or mechanistic aspect of
        the enzymes that can be targeted for the generation of an
        inhibitor. It is hoped that this inhibitor, when given in
        combination with an existing antibiotic, will prove to be
        an effective therapy against bacteria that produce a
        metallo-β-lactamase. This work describes our efforts on
        metallo-β-lactamase L1 from 
        S. maltophilia. 
        
        S. maltophilia is an important
        pathogen in nosocomial infections of immunocompromised
        patients suffering from cancer, cystic fibrosis, drug
        addition, AIDS and in patients with organ transplants and
        on dialysis [ 30 31 32 ] . This organism is inherently
        resistant to most antibiotics due to its low outer membrane
        permeability [ 33 ] and to β-lactam containing antibiotics
        due to the production of a chromosomally expressed group 2e
        β-lactamase (L2) and a group 3c β-lactamase (L1) [ 34 35 ]
        . L1 has been cloned, over-expressed, and partially
        characterized by kinetic and crystallographic studies [ 36
        37 ] . The enzyme exists as a homotetramer of 
        ca. 118 kDa in solution and in the
        crystalline state. The enzyme tightly binds two Zn(II) ions
        per subunit and requires both Zn(II) ions for full
        catalytic activity. The Zn 
        1 site has 3 histidine residues and 1
        bridging hydroxide as ligands, and the Zn 
        2 site has 2 histidines, 1 aspartic
        acid, 1 terminally-bound water, and the bridging hydroxide
        as ligands. Spencer and coworkers used the crystal
        structure and modeling studies to propose a substrate
        binding model and identified several active site residues
        that were involved in substrate binding (Figure 1) [ 37 ] .
        However, this model has not been tested experimentally. In
        order to prepare tight binding inhibitors of the
        metallo-β-lactamases, knowledge about how substrate binds
        to the enzymes is needed so that all substrate-enzyme
        binding contacts can be maintained in any proposed
        inhibitor. This work describes our efforts at understanding
        how substrates bind to metallo-β-lactamase L1. Several
        site-directed mutants of L1 were generated and
        characterized, and the results from these studies reveal
        that none of the active site residues predicted from
        earlier computational studies [ 37 ] are essential for
        tight substrate binding.
      
      
        Results
        
          Wild type L1
          Wild-type L1 was over-expressed in 
          Escherichia coli and purified as
          previously described [ 36 ] . This procedure produced an
          average of 50-60 mg of >90% pure, active protein per 4
          L of growth culture. Circular dichroism spectra were
          collected on wild-type samples to ensure L1 expressed
          using the pET26b expression system had the correct
          secondary structure. The CD spectrum of wild type L1
          showed an intense, broad feature at 190 nm and a smaller
          feature at 215 nm (see Additional file 1: CD spectra).
          These features are consistent with a sample with
          significant α/β content. The Compton and Johnson
          algorithm [ 38 ] was used to estimate secondary structure
          in the samples; wild-type L1 was estimated to have 38.3%
          α-helix, 26.7% β-structure (9.3% antiparallel β-sheet,
          2.1% parallel β-sheet, and 15.3% β-turn), and 34.9% other
          structure. These estimates are in excellent agreement
          with the crystallographically determined secondary
          structure of ~40% α-helix and 30% β-structure [ 37 ] .
          Metal analyses on multiple preparations of wild-type L1
          demonstrated that the enzyme binds 1.9 ± 0.2 Zn(II) ions
          per monomer (Table 2), in agreement with previous results
          [ 36 ] .
          Steady state kinetic studies were performed on
          multiple preparations of wild type L1, and the resulting
          kinetic data are shown in Tables 3, 4, 5. When using
          nitrocefin as substrate and 50 mM cacodylate, pH 7.0, as
          buffer, wild-type L1 exhibited a 
          k 
          cat value of 38 ± 1 s -1and a K 
          m value of 12 ± 1 μM. The inclusion of
          100 μM ZnCl 
          2 in the assay buffer resulted in
          slightly lower values of K 
          m and higher values for 
          k 
          cat [ 36 ] . The inclusion of higher
          concentrations of Zn(II) did not further affect the
          steady-state kinetic constants. Apparently, the purified,
          recombinant enzyme does not bind its full complement of
          Zn(II); therefore, 100 μM Zn(II) was included in all
          subsequent kinetic studies.
          Wild-type L1 exhibited 
          k 
          cat values of 41 ± 1 s -1, 1.9 ± 0.1 s
          -1, 42 ± 1 s -1, and 82 ± 5 s -1for the cephalosporins,
          nitrocefin, cefoxitin, cefaclor, and cephalothin. For
          these same substrates, the K 
          m values were 4 ± 1 μM, 1.1 ± 0.1 μM,
          13 ± 1 μM, and 8.9 ± 1.5 μM, respectively. Two
          penicillins were tested as substrates, and penicillin G
          and ampicillin exhibited K 
          m values of 38 ± 12 μM and 55 ± 5 μM
          and 
          k 
          cat values of 600 ± 100 s -1and 520 ±
          10 s -1, respectively (Table 4). Three carbapenems were
          also used as substrates for L1, and biapenem, imipenem,
          and meropenem exhibited K 
          m values of 32 ± 1 μM, 57 ± 7 μM, and
          15 ± 4 μM and 
          k 
          cat values of 134 ± 4 s -1, 370 ± 5 s
          -1, and 157 ± 9 s -1, respectively (Table 5). L1's
          preference for penicillins and carbapenems over
          cephalosporins, as exemplified by the 
          k 
          cat values, is in agreement with
          previous studies and supports L1's placement in the
          β-lactamase 3c family [ 9 ] .
          Rapid-scanning visible spectra of 25 μM wild-type L1
          with 5 μM nitrocefin demonstrated a decrease in
          absorbance at 390 nm, an increase at 485 nm, and a rapid
          increase and slower decrease in absorbance at 665 nm.
          These spectra are similar to those previously reported
          for wild-type L1 and nitrocefin [ 39 ] , and the features
          can be attributed to substrate decay, product formation,
          and intermediate formation and decay, respectively. Under
          these conditions, 2.2 μM intermediate was formed during
          the first 10 milliseconds of the reaction (Figure 2), and
          the rate of decay of this intermediate corresponds to the
          steady-state 
          k 
          cat (Table 3). To probe further the
          binding of nitrocefin to wild-type L1, stopped-flow
          fluorescence studies were conducted as previously
          described [ 40 ] (Figure 3). The reaction of wild-type L1
          with nitrocefin under steady-state conditions at 10°C
          resulted in a rapid decrease in fluorescence followed by
          a rate-limiting return of fluorescence (Figure 3A).
          Fitting of the data, as described by Spencer 
          et al. [ 40 ] , resulted in a K 
          S value for wild-type L1 of 38 ± 5 μM
          (Figure 3B).
        
        
          Ser224 mutants
          (the BBL numbering scheme proposed in reference 41 was
          used throughout this manuscript). All sequenced subclass
          Ba and Bb metallo-β-lactamases (except VIM-1) have a
          lysine residue at position 224 [ 41 ] , and all
          computational models for substrate binding to the
          metallo-β-lactamases assume that the invariant
          carboxylate on substrates forms an electrostatic
          interaction with this lysine. In L1, the residue at
          position 224 is a serine [ 35 ] , and the
          substrate-binding model for L1 predicts that this serine
          residue interacts with the carboxylate on substrate via a
          water molecule [ 37 ] . To test the proposed role of
          Ser224 in L1, serine was changed to an alanine (S224A),
          aspartic acid (S224D), and lysine (S224K), and these
          mutants were characterized using metal analyses, CD
          spectroscopy, steady-state kinetics, and pre-steady state
          kinetic studies.
          Small-scale growth cultures showed that all three
          mutants were over-expressed at levels comparable to those
          of wild-type L1. Large-scale over-expression and
          purification of the mutants showed that all three mutants
          were isolatable at levels comparable to those of
          wild-type L1. Metal analyses of the S224A and S224D
          mutants showed that both mutants bind nearly two Zn(II)
          ions (Table 2), like wild-type L1 [ 36 ] ; however, the
          S224K mutant binds only 1.0 Zn(II) per protein. CD
          spectra of the mutants were similar to those of wild-type
          L1 (see Figure in Additional materials). Steady-state
          kinetic studies were conducted with all three mutants in
          buffer containing 100 μM ZnCl 
          2 to ensure that both Zn(II) binding
          sites were saturated in these studies. Addition of higher
          concentrations of Zn(II) did not result in different
          values for the steady-state kinetic constants in Tables
          3, 4, 5.
          When the cephalosporins were used as substrates, the
          S224A and S224K mutants exhibited 2- to 4-fold changes in
          K 
          m values (Table 3). In studies with
          cefoxitin, cefaclor, and cephalothin as substrate, the
          observed 
          k 
          cat values for the S224A and S224K
          mutants were 2- to 7-fold lower; however, the 
          k 
          cat values when using nitrocefin as
          substrate were slightly higher (< 2-fold). On the
          other hand, the S224D mutant exhibited 3- to 50-fold
          higher K 
          m values and 2- to 20-fold lower 
          k 
          cat values for the cephalosporins
          tested. A similar trend was observed in kinetic studies
          when using penicillins as substrates (Table 4).
          Generally, the S224A and S224K mutants exhibited small
          changes in K 
          m and 
          k 
          cat , while the S224D mutant yielded
          20- to 40-fold increased values for K 
          m and >10-fold decreases in 
          k 
          cat when using the penicillins as
          substrates. When the carbapenems were used as substrates
          however, the changes in K 
          m values were relatively smaller than
          with the other substrates, and 2- to 37-fold changes in 
          k 
          cat were observed (Table 5).
          Rapid-scanning Vis studies of the S224X mutants were
          conducted to probe whether the mutations caused changes
          in the amount of intermediate that accumulates during
          catalysis. When 50 μM S224A was reacted with 5 μM
          nitrocefin, 1.7 μM intermediate formed during the first
          10 milliseconds of the reaction (Figure 2), and rate of
          decay of this intermediate was equal to the steady-state 
          k 
          cat (Table 3). In spite of utilizing a
          number of reaction conditions, the S224K and S224D
          mutants yielded rapid-scan spectra with no detectable
          absorbances at 665 nm (Figure 2), indicating that the
          intermediate is not stabilized as well in these mutants
          as in wild-type L1. Stopped-flow fluorescence studies at
          10°C with the S224A, S224D, and S224K mutants and
          nitrocefin as the substrate resulted in K 
          S values of 39 ± 10, 213 ± 63, and 33
          ± 5 μM, respectively.
        
        
          Asn233 mutants
          Two-thirds of all sequenced metallo-β-lactamases have
          an Asn at position 233 [ 41 ] , and this residue was
          predicted [ 42 ] and shown [ 43 ] to be involved with
          substrate binding and activation by interacting
          electrostatically with the substrate β-lactam carbonyl.
          However, in L1, Asn233 is 14 Å away from the modeled
          position of the substrate β-lactam carbonyl [ 37 ] . To
          test the role of Asn233 in substrate binding, the Asn was
          changed to a leucine (N233L) and to an aspartic acid
          (N233D), and these mutants were characterized by using
          metal analyses, CD spectroscopy, steady-state kinetics,
          and pre-steady state kinetic studies.
          Small-scale growth cultures showed that both mutants
          were over-expressed at levels comparable to that of
          wild-type L1. Large-scale over-expression and
          purification of the mutants showed that both mutants were
          isolatable at levels comparable to that of wild-type L1.
          Metal analyses of the N233L and N233D mutants showed that
          both bind nearly two Zn(II) ions (Table 2), like
          wild-type L1 [ 36 ] . CD spectra of the mutants were
          similar to those of wild-type L1. Steady-state kinetic
          studies were conducted with both mutants in buffer
          containing 100 μM ZnCl 
          2 to ensure that both Zn(II) binding
          sites were saturated in these studies. Addition of higher
          concentrations of Zn(II) did not result in different
          values for the steady-state kinetic constants in Tables
          3, 4, 5.
          With all substrates tested, the N233L and N233D
          mutants exhibited K 
          m values that differed less than a
          factor of 4 than that observed for wild-type L1 (Tables
          3, 4, 5). The 
          k 
          cat values exhibited by these mutants
          for all substrates also differed by less than a factor of
          4, except when biapenem and meropenem were used as
          substrates for the N233D mutant. With these two
          substrates, there was a 19-fold and 45-fold decrease in
          the 
          k 
          cat values when using biapenem and
          meropenem, respectively (Table 5). The steady-state
          kinetic data generally support the prediction that Asn233
          does not play a large role in binding or catalysis.
          However, rapid-scanning Vis studies of N233L and N233D
          with nitrocefin demonstrate that no detectable amounts of
          intermediate are formed during the reaction, even when
          using a wide number of reaction conditions (Figure 2).
          Stopped-flow fluorescence studies at 10°C with the N233L
          and N233D mutants and nitrocefin as substrate resulted in
          K 
          S values of 26 ± 9 and 25 ± 8 μM,
          respectively.
        
        
          Tyr228 mutants
          The substrate-binding model showed that Tyr228 in L1
          was position-conserved with Asn233 in the other
          crystallographically characterized metallo-β-lactamases [
          37 42 44 45 46 ] . Spencer and coworkers postulated that
          Tyr228 is part of an oxyanion hole that interacts with
          the β-lactam carbonyl on substrate and helps to stabilize
          the putative tetrahedral intermediate formed during
          substrate turnover [ 37 ] . To test this hypothesis,
          Tyr228 was changed to an alanine and to a phenylalanine
          to afford the Y228A and Y228F mutants, respectively.
          Small-scale growth cultures showed that both mutants
          were over-expressed at levels comparable to those of
          wild-type L1. Large-scale over-expression and
          purification of the Y228A and Y228F mutants showed that
          both mutants were isolatable at levels comparable to
          those of wild-type L1. Metal analyses of the mutants
          showed that both bind nearly two Zn(II) ions (Table 2),
          like wild-type L1 [ 36 ] , and CD spectra of the mutants
          were similar to those of wild-type L1. Steady-state
          kinetic studies were conducted with both mutants in
          buffer containing 100 μM ZnCl 
          2 to ensure that both Zn(II) binding
          sites were saturated in these studies. Addition of higher
          concentrations of Zn(II) did not result in different
          values for the steady-state kinetic constants in Tables
          3, 4, 5.
          When cephalosporins were used as substrates, the Y228A
          and Y228F mutants exhibited K 
          m values that were 6- to 45-fold
          higher than those observed for wild-type L1 (Table 3).
          The largest change in K 
          m was observed when cefaclor was used
          as substrate, and the smallest change was observed when
          nitrocefin was used as substrate. The Tyr228 mutants
          exhibited < 4-fold change in 
          k 
          cat values for the cephalosporins
          tested (Table 3), suggesting that Tyr228 is not playing a
          large role in catalysis. When penicillins were used as
          substrates, the Tyr228 mutants exhibited 3- to 13-fold
          increased K 
          m values and < 2-fold changes in 
          k 
          cat , as compared to the values
          ascertained using wild-type L1 (Table 4). On the other
          hand when carbapenems were used as substrates, the Tyr228
          mutants exhibited < 6-fold increases in K 
          m values as compared to those values
          for wild-type L1 (Table 5). Interestingly, there was a 2-
          to 8-fold drop in 
          k 
          cat values for the Tyr228 mutants, as
          compared to values observed for wild-type L1, when using
          the carbapenems as substrates.
          Rapid-scanning Vis spectra of the reaction of the
          Y228A and Y228F mutants with nitrocefin demonstrated a
          marked decrease in the amount of intermediate formed with
          these mutants (Figure 2). In reactions with 50 μM mutant
          and 5 μM nitrocefin, only 0.75 and < 0.30 μM
          intermediate formed for the Y228F and Y228A mutants,
          respectively. The concentration of mutants were varied
          between 25 to 150 μM to ensure that all of the substrate
          was bound; however, none of the reactions resulted in the
          detection of intermediate at levels observed for
          wild-type L1 (data not shown). Stopped-flow fluorescence
          studies at 10°C of nitrocefin hydrolysis by Y191A and
          Y191F resulted in K 
          S values of 85 ± 9 and 22 ± 6 μM,
          respectively.
        
        
          Ile164 and Phe158 mutants
          All crystallographically characterized
          metallo-β-lactamases have a flexible amino acid chain
          that extends over the active site [ 37 42 44 45 46 47 48
          49 ] . Previous NMR studies on CcrA have shown that this
          loop "clamps down" on substrate or inhibitor upon
          binding, and there is speculation that the distortion of
          substrate upon clamping down of the loop may drive
          catalysis [ 50 ] . The crystal structure of L1 showed
          that there is a large loop that extends over the active
          site, and modeling studies have predicted that two
          residues, Ile164 and Phe158, make significant contacts
          with large, hydrophobic substituents at the 2' or 6'
          positions on penicillins, cephalosporins, or carbapenems
          [ 37 ] . To test this prediction, Ile 164 and Phe158 were
          changed from large, hydrophobic residues to alanines to
          afford the I164A and F158A mutants.
          Small-scale growth cultures demonstrated the I164A and
          F158A mutants were over-expressed at levels comparable to
          that of wild-type L1 (data not shown). Large-scale
          over-expression and purification of the mutants resulted
          in comparable quantities of isolatable enzymes, which had
          identical CD spectra as wild-type L1 and bound slightly
          less Zn(II) than wild-type L1 (Table 2). All steady-state
          kinetic studies were conducted in buffers containing 100
          μM ZnCl 
          2 to ensure that both metal binding
          sites were saturated during the studies.
          When using the cephalosporins, nitrocefin, cefoxitin,
          and cephalothin, as substrates and the I164A mutant,
          there were 2- to 10-fold (only for cefoxitin) increases
          in K 
          m and 2- to 4-fold increases in 
          k 
          cat observed (Table 3). However when
          cefaclor was used as substrate, the I164A mutant
          exhibited a 3-fold decrease in K 
          m and a 1.5-fold decrease in 
          k 
          cat (Table 3). On the other hand, the
          K 
          m and 
          k 
          cat values for the I164A mutant when
          the penicillins or carbapenems were used as substrates
          were very similar to those numbers exhibited by wild-type
          L1 (Tables 4and 5).
          When the cephalosporins were used as substrates for
          the F158A mutant, the K 
          m values observed were 7- to 31-fold
          higher than those determined for wild-type L1, and
          surprisingly, the 
          k 
          cat values were 2- to 31-fold higher
          than those exhibited by wild-type L1 (Table 3). As with
          the I164A mutant, the changes in K 
          m and 
          k 
          cat for the penicillins and
          carbapenems were relatively small, as compared with the
          values obtained with the cephalosporins (Table 4).
          Rapid-scanning Vis studies on nitrocefin hydrolysis by
          I164A and F158A showed a marked decrease in intermediate
          accumulation, with the I164A mutant generating < 0.30
          μM intermediate and the F158A producing no detectable
          intermediate (Figure 2). Stopped-flow fluorescence
          studies at 10°C resulted in a K 
          S value of 31 ± 11 μM for the I164A
          mutant. The reaction of F158A with nitrocefin was so
          rapid, we could not determine a K 
          S value for this mutant.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        β-Lactam containing antibiotics constitute the largest
        class of antibiotics, and these compounds are relatively
        inexpensive to produce, cause minor side effects, and are
        effective towards a number of bacterial strains.
        Nonetheless, bacterial resistance to these antibiotics is
        extensive, most commonly due to the bacterial production of
        β-lactamases [ 10 51 ] . In fact, there have been over 300
        distinct β-lactamases reported, and most of these enzymes
        utilize an active site serine group to nucleophilically
        attack the β-lactam carbonyl, resulting in a hydrolyzed
        product that is covalently attached to the active site. To
        combat these enzymes, β-lactamase inhibitors such as
        clavulanic acid, sulbactam, and tazobactam have been given
        in combination with a β-lactam containing antibiotic to
        treat bacterial infections [ 52 ] . One class of
        β-lactamases that are particularly unaffected by the known
        β-lactamase inhibitors and have been shown to hydrolyze
        almost all known β-lactam containing antibiotics including
        late generation carbapenems at high rates are the
        metallo-β-lactamases [ 14 15 16 17 18 19 ] . Although there
        are no reports of metallo-β-lactamases isolated from major
        pathogens [ 51 53 ] , these enzymes are produced by
        pathogens such as 
        B. fragilis, S. maltophilia, and 
        P. aeruginosa. It is inevitable that
        the continued and extensive use of β-lactam antibiotics
        will result in a major pathogen that produces a
        metallo-β-lactamase.
        Efforts to solve the crystal structure of one of the
        metallo-β-lactamases with a bound substrate molecule have
        failed, most likely due to the high activity of the enzymes
        towards all β-lactam containing antibiotics [ 37 54 ] .
        Therefore, computational studies have been used extensively
        to study substrate binding, the role of the Zn(II) ions in
        catalysis, the protonation state of the active site, and
        inhibitor binding [ 37 42 55 56 57 58 59 ] . All of the
        substrate binding models have made assumptions before the
        substrate was docked into the active site [ 37 42 ] , and
        some of these assumptions have been shown to be invalid for
        certain substrates [ 43 ] . With L1, two key assumptions
        were made: (1) the bridging hydroxide functions as the
        nucleophile during catalysis and (2) Zn 
        1 coordinates the β-lactam carbonyl [ 37
        ] . With these assumptions and after energy minimizations,
        Ser224 was predicted to hydrogen bond to the substrate
        carboxylate [ 37 ] , reminiscent of the role predicted for
        Lys224 in CcrA [ 42 ] . Ullah 
        et al. predicted that Phe158 and Ile
        164 form hydrophobic interactions with bulky substituents
        on the substrate, suggesting that the loss of these
        residues would only affect binding of substrates with large
        aromatic substituents [ 37 ] . In the modeling studies on
        CcrA [ 42 ] , Asn233 was predicted to interact with the
        β-lactam carbonyl on substrate, and mutagenesis studies
        have supported this prediction [ 43 ] . Although Asn233 is
        sequence conserved in L1 [ 35 ] , it is located 14Å away
        from the modeled position of the β-lactam carbonyl and was
        predicted not to play a role in substrate binding to L1 [
        37 ] . On the other hand, the substrate-binding model
        predicted that Tyr228 was in position to offer a hydrogen
        bond to the β-lactam carbonyl and participate in an
        oxyanion hole that was proposed to form as the substrate
        was hydrolyzed [ 37 ] . By using the crystal structure and
        modeling studies on L1, Ullah 
        et al. proposed a reaction mechanism
        for the enzyme [ 37 ] . To test this proposed mechanism and
        the proposed roles of the amino acids discussed above,
        site-directed mutagenesis studies were conducted on
        metallo-β-lactamase L1 and reported herein.
        The overlap extension method [ 60 ] was used to prepare
        the site-directed mutants, and a variety of studies were
        used to probe whether the single point mutations resulted
        in large structural changes in the mutant enzymes. (1) The
        over-expression levels of mutants were analyzed with
        SDS-PAGE to ensure that the mutations did not result in
        changes in the over-expression levels of the enzymes. With
        a few L1 mutants and with other enzyme systems in the lab,
        single point mutations often result in depressed levels of
        over-expression [ 61 ] . In the case of the mutants
        described here, all of the mutants over-expressed at levels
        comparable to wild-type L1 (data not shown). (2) The total
        amounts of the mutants isolatable after chromatography were
        compared with wild-type L1 levels. We have found, in
        particular with metal binding mutants of L1 (G. Periyannan,
        R.B. Yates, and M.W. Crowder, unpublished results) and
        glyoxalase II [ 61 ] , that single point mutations can
        result in over-expressed mutants being processed into
        inclusion bodies and unisolatable as soluble proteins. In
        the case of the mutants described here, all of the mutants
        were isolated at levels comparable to wild-type L1. (3) CD
        spectra were collected for all mutants and compared to the
        spectrum of wild-type L1. Although we did not expect a
        large change in the secondary structure of L1 upon single
        point mutations, CD spectroscopy is the most common
        structural technique to characterize site-directed mutants.
        All of the mutants described here exhibited CD spectra that
        were very similar, or identical, to that of wild-type L1
        (see Additional file 1: CD spectra). (4) Metal analyses on
        the mutants were used to probe whether point mutations
        caused a significant change to the metal binding site as to
        preclude metal binding. The crystal structures of the
        metallo-β-lactamases reveal a complex and far-reaching
        hydrogen-bonding network around the metal binding sites,
        and disruption of this network is predicted to affect metal
        binding [ 37 42 44 45 48 49 62 63 ] . With all of the
        mutants described here except the S224K mutant, each mutant
        binds wild-type or near-wild-type levels of Zn(II) after
        purification. The S224K mutant exhibited a 50% reduction in
        metal binding (Table 2), and we postulate this is due to
        electrostatic repulsions between the newly introduced Lys
        with Zn 
        2 . In spite of the mutants binding
        significant amounts of Zn(II), we included 100 μM ZnCl 
        2 in all of the kinetic buffers to
        ensure saturation of the metal binding sites and to
        facilitate direct comparison of the kinetic data. (5) All
        mutants were stable to multiple freeze/thaw cycles and to
        prolonged storage (> 3 weeks) at 4°C, retaining > 95%
        of their activity. With these five lines of evidence, we
        were confident that none of the point mutations resulted in
        large structural changes in L1 and that any kinetic
        differences could be attributed to the changed amino
        acid.
        As a first approximation of substrate binding, we
        examined the steady-state kinetics of 4 cephalosporins, 2
        penicillins, and 3 carbapenems (Tables 3, 4, 5) and
        compared the K 
        m values of the mutants with those of
        wild-type L1. The substrates tested were chosen because
        they exhibited low K 
        m values in previous kinetic studies [
        36 ] , and we believed that we could saturate the enzymes
        with substrate even if there was large change in binding
        with the point mutations. The Tyr228 mutants exhibited
        increased K 
        m values for 8 of the 9 substrates
        tested, with the smallest changes in K 
        m observed when the carbapenems were
        used as the substrate. This result supports the proposed
        role of Tyr228 in substrate binding. In contrast, the
        results on the Ser224 mutants suggest that this residue is
        not important in substrate binding, since the S224A and
        S224K mutants did not exhibit any significant increases (by
        a factor of ≥ 10) in K 
        m for any of the substrates tested. Only
        when Ser224 was replaced with an Asp residue was there
        significant increases in the observed K 
        m value for 6 of the 9 substrates
        tested, and the largest changes were exhibited when the
        penicillins were used as substrates. This result supports
        the observation of differential binding modes of substrates
        to the β-lactamases, depending on the structure of the
        substrate [ 43 64 65 ] . The only remaining mutants that
        exhibited significant changes in the K 
        m values were the I164A and F158A
        mutants. The I164A mutant exhibited increased K 
        m values only when using cefoxitin as
        the substrate, suggesting an interaction of the isoleucine
        group with the methoxy group on cefoxitin. The F158A mutant
        exhibited higher K 
        m values when using the cephalosporins
        as substrates, suggesting an interaction of the
        cephalosporins' substituents with the phenylalanine on the
        loop that extends over the active site. None of the other
        mutants exhibited vastly different values for K 
        m with any of the substrates tested.
        An examination of the 
        k 
        cat values of the mutants revealed some
        surprising results. The S224D mutants displayed decreased 
        k 
        cat values for 7 of the 9 substrates
        tested. Since similar results were not observed with the
        S224K and S224A mutants, we do not propose a catalytic role
        for Ser224. Instead, we predict that the insertion of an
        aspartic acid into the active site at position 224 results
        in a change in the hydrogen bonding network in L1; this
        hydrogen bonding network is extensive in all
        metallo-β-lactamases that have been characterized
        crystallographically [ 37 42 44 45 48 49 62 63 ] . The
        N233D mutant also exhibited greatly reduced 
        k 
        cat values for biapenem and meropenem
        but not for imipenem or any of the other substrates tested.
        This mutation is also predicted to affect the hydrogen
        bonding network around the active site, and apparently,
        interactions of the enzyme with the 4' substituent of the
        carbapenems has an effect on catalysis. More surprisingly
        are the increases in 
        k 
        cat of the F158A mutants. We are
        uncertain why the mutation of residues on the loop that
        extends over the active site would affect 
        k 
        cat , since substrate and product
        binding have been predicted to be very fast in the reaction
        of nitrocefin with L1. However, we do note that the k 
        cat /K 
        m values of wild-type L1 and F158A
        differ by a factor less than 2.
        The inability to propose a consistent binding model also
        supports the recent proposal that different substrates of
        L1 are hydrolyzed by different mechanisms and further
        suggests that using steady-state kinetic constants may not
        be a valid way to probe substrate binding to L1. In
        addition, the minimal kinetic mechanism of nitrocefin
        hydrolysis by L1 has been reported, and this mechanism
        predicts that K 
        m does not accurately reflect substrate
        binding. By using this mechanism [ 39 ] , K 
        m is equal to {(k 
        -1 + k 
        2 )k 
        3 k 
        4 } / {k 
        1 (k 
        3 k 
        4 + k 
        2 k 
        4 + k 
        2 k 
        3 }. To probe more directly the
        reaction, stopped-flow absorbance studies were conducted,
        and the substrate decay rates (390 nm) were studied as a
        function of nitrocefin concentration. While nitrocefin is a
        nontypical substrate, as a result of the
        dinitro-substituted styryl substituent [ 40 ] , it is the
        substrate about which the most is known about its
        hydrolysis mechanism. Therefore, kinetic studies with
        nitrocefin as substrate allowed for us to evaluate the
        effect of point mutations on the reaction mechanism of L1.
        There was no clear dependence on substrate decay rates with
        nitrocefin concentration (data not shown). We did note
        though that the amount of intermediate formed during the
        reactions varied considerably depending upon which mutant
        of L1 was used in the study. All of the mutants exhibited
        decreases in intermediate formation, and the S224D, S224K,
        F158A, N233D, and N233L mutants yielded rapid-scanning data
        consistent with no detectable intermediate. These same
        mutants exhibited vastly differing K 
        m values. Clearly there is no
        correlation of K 
        m with the presence of the reaction
        intermediate. Apparently, the ability to observe the
        intermediate is not governed entirely by the choice of
        substrate [ 40 ] , and it also depends on precise
        arrangement of active site residues. It is also possible
        that the site-directed mutants could be utilizing a
        different mechanism to hydrolyze nitrocefin [ 66 ] .
        Recently, Spencer and co-workers reported that
        stopped-flow fluorescence studies can be used to monitor
        the reaction of L1 with nitrocefin and that an initial
        binding step can be directly monitored [ 40 ] . By
        increasing the concentration of nitrocefin, the rate of the
        initial binding step increased to a maximum, and fitting of
        these data yielded a binding constant (called K 
        S herein) for nitrocefin. Each of the L1
        mutants were studied using the stopped-flow fluorescence
        studies, and the resulting data were fitted as reported by
        Spencer 
        et al. [ 40 ] (Table 6). All of the
        mutants exhibited K 
        S values identical, within error, to
        wild-type L1, except the S224D and the Y228A mutants. The
        placement of a negative charge at position 224 drastically
        affects nitrocefin binding and results in a 6-fold decrease
        in binding affinity (Table 6). To a lesser degree, the
        aromatic portion of Tyr228 must have an effect on the
        binding site as the K 
        S value for nitrocefin binding to this
        mutant is decreased by a factor of 2; however, the hydroxyl
        group probably does not form a hydrogen bond to the
        substrate as proposed. By using nitrocefin as substrate and
        K 
        m values alone, a completely different
        conclusion is reached regarding important substrate binding
        residues. The results presented here suggests that none of
        the residues in this study are essential for tight
        nitrocefin binding, possibly because other parts of the
        active site accommodate the loss of certain binding
        contacts.
        Spencer 
        et al. also reported stopped-flow
        fluorescence studies when using cefaclor and meropenem as
        substrates, and K 
        S values for these substrates were
        reported to be 710 ± 180 and 272 ± 112 μM, respectively [
        40 ] . However in our hands, the rates of substrate
        hydrolysis were so fast when using wild-type L1 that we
        could not use substrate concentrations high enough to
        saturate the enzyme. Similarly, we could not determine K 
        S values for penicillin G or ampicillin
        because the observed rates of hydrolysis at low substrate
        concentrations were too fast to observe data, even at
        10°C.
      
      
        Conclusions
        The results presented herein indicate that none of the
        active site residues identified with computational studies
        are essential for tight substrate binding. These data also
        indicate that the use of K 
        m values to describe substrate binding
        to L1 is unreliable and that there is no correlation
        between intermediate accumulation and substrate binding
        affinity. These results demonstrate that new computational
        studies are now needed to probe substrate binding to L1,
        and these studies are currently underway. The results
        presented herein can be used to guide these new
        computational studies, which will lead to the design of
        potential inhibitors and hopefully a way to combat
        penicillin resistance in bacteria.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Materials
          
          E. coli strains DH5α and BL21(DE3)
          pLysS were obtained from Gibco BRL and Novagen,
          respectively. Plasmids pET26b and pUC19 were purchased
          from Novagen. Primers for sequencing and mutagenesis
          studies were purchased from Integrated DNA Technologies.
          Deoxynucleotide triphosphates (dNTP's), MgSO 
          4 , thermopol buffer, Deep Vent DNA
          polymerase, and restrictions enzymes were purchased from
          Promega or New England Biolabs. Polymerase chain reaction
          was conducted using a Thermolyne Amplitron II unit. DNA
          was purified using the Qiagen QIAQuick gel extraction kit
          or Plasmid Purification kit with QIAGEN-tip 100 (Midi)
          columns. Wizard Plus Minipreps were acquired from
          Promega. Luria-Bertani (LB) media was made following
          published procedures [ 67 ] . Isopropyl-β-thiogalactoside
          (IPTG), Biotech grade, was procured from Anatrace.
          Phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride (PMSF) was purchased from
          Sigma. Protein solutions were concentrated with an Amicon
          ultrafiltration cell equipped with YM-10 DIAFLO membranes
          from Amicon, Inc. Dialysis tubing was prepared using
          Spectra/Por regenerated cellulose molecular porous
          membranes with a molecular weight cut-off of 6-8,000
          g/mol. Q-Sepharose Fast Flow was purchased from Amersham
          Pharmacia Biotech. Nitrocefin was purchased from Becton
          Dickinson, and solutions of nitrocefin were filtered
          through a Fisherbrand 0.45 micron syringe filter.
          Cefaclor, cefoxitin, and cephalothin were purchased from
          Sigma; penicillin G and ampicillin were purchased from
          Fisher. Imipenem, meropenem, and biapenem were generously
          supplied by Merck, Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, and Lederle
          (Japan), respectively. All buffers and media were
          prepared using Barnstead NANOpure ultrapure water.
        
        
          Generation of site-directed mutants of L1
          The over-expression plasmid for L1, pUB5832, was
          digested with 
          Nde I and 
          Hind III, and the resulting 
          ca. 900 bp piece was gel purified
          and ligated using T4 ligase into pUC19, which was also
          digested with 
          Nde I and 
          Hind III, to yield the cloning
          plasmid pL1PUC19. Mutations were introduced into the L1
          gene by using the overlap extension method of Ho 
          et al. [ 60 ] , as described
          previously [ 68 ] . The oligonucleotides used for the
          preparation of the mutants are shown in Table 1. The 
          ca. 900 bp PCR products were
          digested with 
          Nde I and 
          Hind III and ligated into pUC19.
          The DNA sequences were analyzed by the Biosynthesis and
          Sequencing Facility in the Department of Biological
          Chemistry at Johns Hopkins University. After confirmation
          of the sequence, the mutated pL1PUC19 plasmid was
          digested with 
          Nde I and 
          Hind III, and the 900 bp, mutated
          L1 gene was gel purified and ligated into pET26b to
          create the mutant overexpression plasmids. To test for
          overexpression of the mutant enzymes, 
          E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS cells were
          transformed with the mutated over-expression plasmids,
          and small scale growth cultures were used [ 68 ] .
          Large-scale (4 L) preparations of the L1 mutants were
          performed as described previously [ 36 ] . Protein purity
          was ascertained by SDS-PAGE.
        
        
          Metal content
          The concentrations of L1 and the mutants were
          determined by measuring the proteins' absorbance at 280
          nm and using the published extinction coefficient of ε 
          280 nm = 54,804 M -1•cm -1 [ 36 ] or
          by using the method of Pace [ 69 ] . Before metal
          analyses, the protein samples were dialyzed versus 3 × 1
          L of metal-free, 50 mM HEPES, pH 7.5 over 96 hours at
          4°C. A Varian Inductively Coupled Plasma Spectrometer
          with atomic emission spectroscopy detection (ICP-AES) was
          used to determine metal content of multiple preparations
          of wild type L1 and L1 mutants. Calibration curves were
          based on three standards and had correlation coefficient
          limits of at least 0.9950. The final dialysis buffer was
          used as a blank, and the Zn(II) content in the final
          dialysis buffers was shown to be < 0.5 μM (detection
          limit of ICP) in separate ICP measurements. The emission
          line of 213.856 nm is the most intense for zinc and was
          used to determine the Zn content in the samples. The
          errors in metal content data reflect the standard
          deviation (σ 
          n-1 ) of multiple enzyme
          preparations.
        
        
          Steady-state kinetic studies
          Steady-state kinetic assays were conducted at 25°C in
          50 mM cacodylate buffer, pH 7.0, containing 100 μM ZnCl 
          2 on a HP 5480A diode array UV-Vis
          spectrophotometer at 25°C. The changes in molar
          absorptivities (Δε) used to quantitate products were (in
          M -1cm -1): nitrocefin, Δε 
          485 = 17,420; cephalothin, Δε 
          265 = -8,790; cefoxitin, Δε 
          265 = -7,000; cefaclor, Δε 
          280 = -6,410; imipenem, Δε 
          300 = -9,000; meropenem, Δε 
          293 = -7,600; biapenem, Δε 
          293 = -8,630; ampicillin, Δε 
          235 = -809; and penicillin G, Δε 
          235 = -936. When possible, substrate
          concentrations were varied between 0.1 to 10 times the K 
          m value. In kinetic studies using
          substrates with low K 
          m values (cefoxitin, nitrocefin, and
          cephalothin) or with small Δε values (penicillin and
          ampicillin), we typically used substrate concentrations
          varied between ~ K 
          m and 10 × K 
          m and used as much of the ΔA versus
          time data (that was linear) as possible to determine the
          velocity. Steady-state kinetics constants, K 
          m and 
          k 
          cat , were determined by fitting
          initial velocity versus substrate concentration data
          directly to the Michaelis equation using CurveFit [ 36 ]
          . The reported errors reflect fitting uncertainties. All
          steady-state kinetic studies were performed in triplicate
          with recombinant L1 from at least three different enzyme
          preparations.
        
        
          Circular dichroism
          Circular dichroism samples were prepared by dialyzing
          the purified enzyme samples versus 3 × 2 L of 5 mM
          phosphate buffer, pH 7.0 over six hours. The samples were
          diluted with final dialysis buffer to ~75 μg/mL. A JASCO
          J-810 CD spectropolarimeter operating at 25°C was used to
          collect CD spectra.
        
        
          Stopped - flow/Rapid-Scanning UV-Visible
          Spectrophotometry
          Rapid-scanning Vis spectra of nitrocefin hydrolysis by
          L1 and the L1 mutants were collected on a Applied
          Photophysics SX.18MV stopped-flow spectrophotometer
          equipped with an Applied Photophysics PD.l photodiode
          array detector and a 1 cm pathlength optical cell. A
          typical experiment consisted of 25 μM enzyme and 5 μM
          nitrocefin in 50 mM cacodylate buffer, pH 7.0 containing
          100 μM ZnCl 
          2 , the reaction temperature was
          thermostated at 25°C, and the spectra were collected
          between 300 and 725 nm. Data from at least three
          experiments were collected and averaged. Absorbance data
          were converted to concentration data as described
          previously by McMannus and Crowder [ 39 ] . Stopped-flow
          fluorescence studies of nitrocefin hydrolysis by L1 were
          performed on an Applied Photophysics SX.18MV
          spectrophotometer, using an excitation wavelength of 295
          nm and a WG320 nm cut-off filter on the photomultiplier.
          These experiments were conducted at 10°C using the same
          buffer in the rapid-scanning Vis studies. Fluorescence
          data were fitted to 
          k 
          obs = {( 
          k 
          f [S]) / K 
          S + [S])} + 
          k 
          r as described previously [ 40 ] or to
          
          k 
          obs = 
          k 
          f [S] + 
          k 
          r by using CurveFit v. 1.0.
        
      
      
        Abbreviations
        AES, atomic emission spectroscopy; bp, base pairs; CD,
        circular dichroism; ε, extinction coefficient; ICP,
        inductively coupled plasma; 
        k 
        cat , turnover number; kDa, kilodaltons;
        K 
        m , Michaelis constant; K 
        S , substrate binding constant; LB,
        Luria-Bertani media.
      
    
  
