
  
    
      
        Background
        Thiamine is a water-soluble, B-complex vitamin that
        cannot be synthesized by mammals, and thus thiamine can be
        obtained only from dietary intake. This can lead to severe
        consequences in humans when thiamine is limiting; thiamine
        deficiency may result in beriberi and the Wernike-Korsakoff
        syndrome [ 1 2 ] . Being positively charged and present in
        relatively low plasma concentrations, thiamine movement
        across cellular membranes requires transporters. Upon being
        taken up by a cell, thiamine is rapidly diphosphorylated by
        thiamine diphosphokinase to give thiamine diphosphate
        (ThDP) [ 3 ] . Thus, thiamine represents only a few percent
        of the total cellular thiamine/thiamine phosphate
        derivatives. ThDP serves as a cofactor for several enzymes
        that are found both in the cytosol (transketolase) and
        mitochondria (α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex being
        the most studied example). The intracellular concentration
        of ThDP has been estimated at 30 μM, with only about 7
        percent being free cytosolic and the remainder being
        enzyme-bound with much of this within mitochondria [ 4 5 ]
        . Previous findings indicate a complex, cell-type dependent
        regulation of compartmentalization and intracellular pools
        of thiamine and its phosphorylated derivatives in response
        to fluctuating extracellular thiamine levels [ 4 5 6 ] .
        Hence, thiamine transport, including that by mitochondria,
        is of interest.
        Thiamine entry into mammalian cells occurs by a
        saturable, high affinity transporter that is deficient in
        humans with thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia (TRMA)
        [ 7 8 9 10 11 12 ] . Thiamine uptake by mitochondria has
        been demonstrated [ 13 ] , yet thiamine diphosphokinase is
        cytosolic and mitochondria cannot convert thiamine to ThDP
        [ 14 15 16 ] . Barile and coworkers demonstrated saturable
        uptake of ThDP by rat liver mitochondria characterized by a
        K 
        m of around 20 μM. Although the
        estimated concentration, in mice and human cells, of
        intracellular ThDP is about 30 μM, much of this is found in
        a low turnover pool representing enzyme-bound ThDP [ 4 17 ]
        . The estimated concentration of free cytosolic ThDP
        available for intracellular transport is about 10% of the
        total concentration and thus 2 to 3 μM [ 4 17 18 ] . Hence
        the physiological significance of the mitochondrial ThDP
        uptake just decribed is uncertain. Within mitochondria,
        ThDP can be converted to thiamine monophosphate [ 19 ] .
        Thiamine or ThDP entry into mitochondria from TRMA cells
        has not been studied. Interestingly, ThDP-utilizing enzymes
        in mitochondria are much less affected (as revealed by loss
        of activity) upon progressive depletion of thiamine
        available to TRMA cells than are ThDP-utilizing enzymes of
        the cytosol [ 6 ] . For these reasons, we have examined the
        uptake of thiamine and especially ThDP by mitochondria from
        several human cell types, including cells from TRMA
        patients.
      
      
        Results
        
          Uptake of thiamine by cells and mitochondria
          Although our interests primarily were in mitochondrial
          uptake of thiamine and its derivatives, we first examined
          cellular uptake of thiamine by the lymphoblast cell lines
          and found thiamine uptake properties typical of other
          mammalian cells. Figure 1aindicates thiamine uptake by
          normal lymphoblasts and lymphoblasts derived from a TRMA
          patient. The high affinity transport of thiamine by
          normal lymphoblasts is abolished in the presence of a 100
          fold excess of unlabeled thiamine. Under such conditions,
          some uptake continues from a low affinity (K 
          m in the mM range) transport mechanism
          [ 3 ] and/or from diffusion [ 20 ] that characterizes
          thiamine uptake in all mammalian cells examined to date.
          Using an expanded range of thiamine concentrations from
          that shown in fig. 1in multiple experiments resulted in a
          K 
          m of 1.0 ± 0.9 μM for the high
          affinity transport by normal lymphoblasts. As expected,
          lymphoblasts derived from the TRMA patient showed no high
          affinity thiamine transport as revealed by thiamine
          uptake being the same in the absence and presence of
          excess unlabelled thiamine.
          Mitochondria isolated from normal lymphoblasts also
          were found to take up thiamine (fig. 1b) in a manner
          similar to that of cellular uptake, with both a high and
          low affinity component. Using an expanded range of
          thiamine concentrations in multiple experiments resulted
          in a K 
          m of 2.1 ± 0.4 μM for high affinity
          thiamine uptake by normal lymphoblast mitochondria.
          Interestingly, mitochondria from TRMA lymphoblasts did
          not possess a "high affinity" thiamine transport capacity
          as did mitochondria form normal lymphoblasts. No
          difference in uptake of thiamine by TRMA mitochondria was
          found in the presence and absence of excess unlabelled
          thiamine (fig. 1b).
          This finding suggests that cellular and mitochondrial
          uptake of thiamine may be mediated by the same
          transporter since TRMA is defined by mutation within the
          thiamine transporter located on the plasma membrane [ 7 8
          9 10 11 12 ] . Using antiserum specific for the human
          thiamine transporter that is mutated in TRMA individuals,
          western analysis consistently resulted in a faint but
          detectable band within the isolated mitochondrial
          suspension (fig. 1c), even after extensive and multiple
          washing.
        
        
          Uptake of ThDP by mitochondria
          Although mitochondria from lymphoblasts (above) and
          other mammalian cells [ 13 ] were found to take up
          thiamine, the physiological significance of the uptake is
          unknown given that thiamine diphosphokinase is cytosolic
          and mitochondria cannot convert thiamine to ThDP [ 14 16
          21 ] . We thus were interested in uptake of ThDP by
          mitochondria, a possibility demonstrated previously with
          rat liver [ 14 ] . Mitochondria from normal human
          lymphoblasts were able to take up ThDP in a saturable,
          biphasic manner (fig. 2) with a first saturation in the
          submicromolar range (described below) and a second at
          much higher concentrations of ThDP. Time course
          experiments indicated ThDP uptake was linear for at least
          20 minutes (data not shown), and uptake was linear with
          the amount of mitochondrial protein added (inset of fig.
          2).
          Although the biphasic nature of the uptake is readily
          seen in various plots of the data, the existence of the
          high affinity component perhaps is best illustrated in
          fig. 3in which the uptake at submicromolar concentrations
          of ThDP is illustrated (open squares). Uptake of ThDP was
          repeated in the presence of 30 μM non-radioactive ThDP, a
          concentration that is 100 to about 40 fold excess over
          the concentration of radioactive ThDP that was used.
          Given the K 
          m values for the high and low affinity
          components (see below), this excess should abolish most
          of the high affinity uptake but have little to no effect
          on the low affinity uptake. The uptake due solely to the
          low affinity component was calculated using the kinetic
          parameters determined for this component and was plotted
          as open triangles. As seen in fig. 3, uptake in the
          presence of 30 μM non-radioactive ThDP (open circles) was
          essentially identical to that calculated for the low
          affinity component and abolition of the high affinity
          uptake indeed was observed.
          Using the data from 4 independent experiments resulted
          in the determination of a K 
          m of 0.38 μM for the high affinity
          (table 1) and 115 μM for the low affinity uptake
          components. The high affinity K 
          m value compares favorably with the
          estimated 2 to 3 μM intracellular concentration of free
          ThDP.
          Mitochondria isolated from TRMA lymphoblasts took up
          ThDP in an essentially identical saturable, biphasic
          fashion as uptake by normal mitochondria (fig. 4). The
          inset compares the Lineweaver-Burk plot of the high
          affinity uptake component for mitochondria of both cell
          types. A high affinity K 
          m of 0.60 (table 1) was calculated for
          mitochondrial uptake of ThDP for TRMA lymphoblasts, a
          value that is essentially the same as that for
          mitochondria isolated from normal lymphoblasts. The
          results indicate that although mitochondria from TRMA
          lymphoblasts cannot take up thiamine with high affinity,
          they can efficiently import ThDP, the active form of
          thiamine.
          Previous work has indicated that different cell types
          may differentially regulate intracellular pools of
          thiamine and/or its phosphorylated derivatives [ 6 ] .
          Thus, we examined ThDP uptake by several other cell
          types. As shown in table 1, high affinity uptake of ThDP
          by mitochondria from fibroblasts and neuroblastoma cells
          was essentially the same as that for normal and TRMA
          lymphoblasts as revealed by the similar K 
          m values. The apparent affinity for
          ThDP characteristic of the high affinity uptake component
          was essentially identical for all cell types examined,
          however variation was seen in transport capacity, as
          revealed by substantially different values for V 
          max (table 1). Mitochondria from all
          of the cell types examined also possessed the low
          affinity uptake characterized by K 
          m 's similar to that of normal
          lymphoblasts but with a greater range of values being
          found (20 to 115 μM).
          The final entry in table 1is for ThDP uptake by
          mitochondria isolated from 
          glyB cells. 
          GlyB cells are a Chinese hamster
          ovary cell line that is deficient in the transport of
          folate into mitochondria. For reasons discussed below,
          ThDP uptake was examined in these cells. As seen in table
          1, high affinity uptake was found with kinetic constants
          similar to those of the human cell types. The low
          affinity uptake component was also similar to that by
          human mitochondria (data not shown).
        
      
      
        Discussion + Conclusion
        As has been reported for mitochondria of rat liver [ 13
        ] , mitochondria from human lymphoblasts were found herein
        to take up thiamine in a saturable manner characterized by
        a K 
        m of 2.1 μM. Upon entry into a cell,
        thiamine is rapidly diphosphorylated to ThDP, resulting in
        a low intracellular thiamine concentration [ 4 17 ] . The K
        
        m determined here is about an order of
        magnitude greater than the estimated intracellular thiamine
        concentration [ 4 ] , raising questions about the
        efficiency of such uptake.
        Surprisingly, mitochondria derived from TRMA
        lymphoblasts lacked the high affinity uptake of thiamine.
        TRMA is caused by mutations which destroy the high affinity
        thiamine transporter of the plasma membrane [ 7 8 9 10 11
        12 ] . The similar K 
        m values found for cellular and
        mitochondrial uptake of thiamine for normal lymphoblasts
        and the lack of such uptake by TRMA mitochondria and TRMA
        cells suggests that high affinity thiamine import into
        mitochondria may be carried out by the same transporter or
        a variant form, perhaps generated by differential splicing,
        of that serving on the plasma membrane. Although western
        analysis using anti-human transporter (that is mutated in
        TRMA individuals) antiserum supports this interpretation,
        further experiments need to be carried out to substantiate
        the suggestion of a shared thiamine transporter between
        these two membrane systems. Even if true, the physiological
        significance of thiamine uptake by mitochondria is unknown
        since mitochondria cannot form ThDP from thiamine [ 14 15
        16 ] .
        We find that mitochondria from a variety of human cell
        types efficiently take up ThDP. Uptake is biphasic with a
        high and a low affinity component. The K 
        m values characteristics of the high
        affinity uptake component (all around 0.4 μM) are
        comparable to the estimated intracellular concentration of
        free (non-enzyme bound) cytosolic ThDP of around 3 μM [ 4 ]
        . This suggests that the high affinity uptake system is the
        physiologically relevant mechanism responsible for ThDP
        entry into mitochondria. Earlier work with rat liver
        mitochondria identified a ThDP uptake system with an
        estimated K 
        m of around 20 μM [ 14 ] . This is of
        the same order of magnitude that we find for the low
        affinity component in the human cells examined herein. The
        previous work used a less sensitive procedure of examining
        ThDP uptake and did not examine uptake below 10 μM. This
        would explain the lack of identification in the previous
        work of the high affinity uptake component.
        There is a high degree of amino acid similarity among
        folate transporters and the thiamine transporter of the
        plasma membrane [ 7 8 9 10 ] . Recently, it was found that
        in murine cells there can be a substantial efflux of ThDP
        mediated by the reduced folate carrier protein [ 22 ] . 
        GlyB cells are a Chinese hamster
        ovary cell line derivative that are deficient in the
        transport of folates into mitochondria, and the responsible
        mitochondrial transporter has recently been identified and
        its gene cloned [ 23 ] . We wondered if the mitochondrial
        folate transporter was responsible for uptake of ThDP into
        mitochondria, making analogies to the ability of the plasma
        membrane folate transporter being able to transport ThDP.
        However, this is not the case as 
        glyB cells that lack the
        mitochondrial folate transporter were found to take up ThDP
        with high affinity kinetics similar to that of mitochondria
        of human cells.
        Mitochondria from three human cell types - lymphoblasts,
        fibroblasts, and neruoblastoma cells - all possessed a high
        affinity ThDP uptake component characterized by equivalent
        apparent affinity for ThDP as revealed by essentially
        identical K 
        m values. Previous studies indicate the
        existence of a complex, cell-type dependent regulation of
        compartmentalization and intracellular pools of thiamine
        and/or its phosphorylated derivatives in response to
        fluctuating extracellular thiamine levels [ 4 6 17 ] . The
        cell lines used here were also used in the studies leading
        to this conclusion. Clearly, differences in mitochondrial
        transporter affinities do not contribute to the cell-type
        dependent regulation of ThDP compartmentalization. However,
        we did find significant differences in ThDP uptake capacity
        with respect to cell type as revealed by variation in the V
        
        max values. Neuroblastoma mitochondria
        possessed the largest uptake capacity, having a V 
        max 4 to 30 fold higher than that of the
        other cell types examined. Interestingly, of the three cell
        types neuroblastoma cells also are the most resistant to
        changes in mitochondrial ThDP-utilizing enzyme activity
        upon progressive depletion of the thiamine made available
        to the cells [ 6 ] . This suggests that cell-dependent
        variation in ThDP uptake capacity by mitochondria may
        contribute to the cell-dependent regulation of ThDP
        compartmentalization. As such regulation was most clearly
        revealed upon progressively depleting thiamine from cells [
        6 ] , it will be of interest to examine possible changes in
        mitochondrial transport capacity in response to thiamine
        depletion.
        Studies on the sensitivity of ThDP-utilizing enzymes to
        progressive depletion of thiamine that is available to the
        cell indicate that such enzymes in mitochondria are
        significantly less sensitive than cytosolic enzymes in TRMA
        cells [ 6 ] . This could be interpreted as efficient import
        of thiamine/ThDP into mitochondria in TRMA cells even
        though thiamine inefficiently enters these cells due to the
        lack of the high affinity thiamine transporter. Although we
        found a lack of mitochondrial uptake of thiamine in TRMA
        cells, our finding of an intact, high affinity ThDP
        transport mechanism for TRMA mitochondria is consistent
        with and offers an explanation for such an
        interpretation.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Radiochemicals
          [ 3H]thiamine (1 Ci/mmol, radiochemical purity greater
          than 97%) and [ 3H]thiamine diphosphate (1.4 Ci/mmol,
          radiochemical purity greater than 98 %) were purchased
          from Moravek Biochemical Inc (Brea, CA).
        
        
          Cell culture
          Normal lymphoblasts, TRMA lymphoblasts and fibroblasts
          cell lines were obtained and have been characterized as
          described [ 6 ] . The human neuroblastoma cells were an
          SY-SY5Y cell line, a thrice-cloned subline of SK-N-SH [
          24 ] . 
          GlyB cells, a Chinese hamster ovary
          K1 subline, are deficient in the transport of folate into
          mitochondria [ 23 ] and were a kind gift from L. Chasin
          (Columbia University). All cell types were growth at 37°C
          in the presence of 10 μM thiamine in RPMI 1640 medium
          supplemented with 10% heat-inactive fetal calf serum, 2
          mM L-glutamine and 1 g/L penicillin/streptomycin, except 
          glyB cells which were grown in MEM
          medium. Cells were grown and used at late log phase or at
          80-90% confluency.
        
        
          Cellular thiamine transport
          Cells were harvested, washed four times with 40 ml of
          ice-cold transport buffer (145 mM NaCl, 1 mM MgCl 
          2 , 1 mM CaCl 
          2 , 10 mM glucose, 10 mM HEPES, pH
          7.4), titered, and preincubated for 30 min. at 37°C after
          resuspending 3 × 10 7cells in 1 ml of transport buffer.
          Various amounts of [ 3H]thiamine (to give submicromolar
          and micromolar final concentrations) were added and the
          reactions were incubated for 30 min. The specific
          activity of the radioactive thiamine was the same for
          each concentration used. The cells were collected by
          rapid filtration onto glass fiber filters (type A/E,
          Gelman Sciences, Ann Arbor, MI) and washed via filtration
          with 10 ml of cold transport buffer. After thorough
          drying (overnight at 60°C), the amount of labeled
          thiamine taken up by the cells was determined by
          scintillation counting [ 25 ] . For each concentration,
          the uptake in the presence of a 100-fold excess of
          unlabelled thiamine was performed to assess the
          contribution to uptake from a low affinity (K 
          m in the mM range) component [ 3 ]
          and/or from diffusion [ 20 ] .
        
        
          Isolation of mitochondria
          Mitochondria were isolated from about 3 × 10 8cells
          according to published procedures [ 26 27 ] . The final
          mitochondrial pellet was suspended in suspension buffer
          (140 mM KCl, 0.3 mM EDTA, 5 mM MgCl 
          2 , 10 mM HEPES, pH 7.4) to give a
          protein concentration of 3-4 mg/ml. Protein concentration
          was determined using the Bio-Rad DC Protein Assay Kit
          (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, CA). The isolation and
          purity of the mitochondrial preparations were monitored
          by western analysis using anti-cytochrome C antiserum and
          by microscopy. Western analysis also was performed on the
          subcellular fractions using antiserum raised against a
          human thiamine transporter-specific peptide. The
          antiserum detects a protein of 55 KD (predicted size of
          the plasma membrane thiamine transporter) that is not
          detected in cells from TRMA individuals that possess a
          premature stop codon within the transporter gene
          (unpublished results).
        
        
          Uptake of thiamine and ThDP by mitochondria
          Uptake of thiamine and ThDP by mitochondria was
          determined by a rapid filtration procedure [ 26 28 ] .
          Incubations were performed at 37°C by rapidly mixing 30
          μl of mitochondrial suspension (ca. 100 micrograms of
          protein) with 220 μl of incubation buffer (140 mM KCl,
          0.3 mM EDTA, 5 mM MgCl 
          2 , 10 mM Mes, pH 6.5) containing
          labeled thiamine or ThDP at various concentrations. The
          uptake was stopped at 15 min. by the addition of 2 ml of
          ice-cold stop buffer (100 mM KCl, 100 mM mannitol, 10 mM
          potassium phosphate, pH 7.4) and the mitochondria were
          collected by rapid filtration on 0.45 μM Millipore
          membrane filters. The filters were immediately washed
          with 5 ml of stop buffer via filtration, and they were
          subsequently dried at 60°C overnight. The amount of
          labeled thiamine or ThDP taken up by the mitochondria was
          determined by scintillation counting. Background binding
          was determined by using a 100 fold excess of unlabelled
          thiamine or ThDP in parallel reactions.
        
      
      
        Authors' Contributions
        QS carried out most of the experiments and participated
        in writing the manuscript. CKS conceived of the study,
        participated in its design and coordination, performed a
        few of the thiamine uptake by cells experiments, and
        participated in writing the manuscript.
      
      
        Abbreviations
        thiamine diphosphate (ThDP); thiamine-responsive
        megaloblastic anemia (TRMA)
      
    
  
