
  
    
      
        Background
        
          BLM is a member of the RecQ family of DNA
          helicases
          Bloom syndrome (BS) is a rare cancer-prone autosomal
          recessive disorder characterized by genomic instability,
          immunodeficiency, infertility and small stature [ 1, 2].
          BS cells have a distinctive genomic instability: a high
          frequency of sister chromatid exchange (SCEs) and
          quadriradial formation. 
          BLM, the gene mutated in BS,
          encodes a DNA helicase (BLM) of the RecQ family [ 3]. BLM
          shares the most identity in the helicase domain to the
          mouse and Xenopus orthologs [ 4, 5, 6], to a predicted 
          C. elegans protein CAB05609 [ 7],
          and to 
          D. melanogaster dmBLM [ 8]. BLM can
          partially complement phenotypes of mutations in the 
          S. cerevisiae SGS1 gene [ 9, 10].
          There are two published reports of 
          BLM knock-out mice: one strategy
          used a single deletion allele and found that the
          homozygous null mutants are embryonic lethals [ 4]; the
          second strategy used two different deletion alleles and
          recovered full sized, fertile compound heterozygote mice
          with an elevated incidence of cancer [ 5]. The second
          mouse model was made with ES cells that have a high
          frequency of SCEs before injection and recapitulates the
          BS phenotypes more accurately.
          There are four other human genes in the RecQ family: 
          RecQL / RecQl, WRN, RecQ4, RecQ5 [
          11, 12]. 
          WRN is the gene mutated in Werner
          syndrome, a premature aging disorder; WS cells also show
          features of genomic instability [ 13]. WRN encodes an
          exonuclease activity and shares many similar in vitro
          helicase activities with BLM [ 14, 15]. Mutations in the 
          RECQ4 gene have been found in
          persons with Rothmund-Thomson syndrome, a rare premature
          aging and cancer-prone disorder [ 16]. Previous work from
          this laboratory and others [ 10, 17, 18, 19] demonstrated
          the DNA helicase activity of BLM in vitro on a variety of
          DNA substrates. Transfection of the normal BLM cDNA (but
          not missense alleles lacking helicase activity) into BS
          cells reduces the frequency of SCEs [ 10], indicating
          that the DNA helicase activity of BLM is essential for
          genomic stability.
        
        
          BLM is localized in nuclear bodies and the
          nucleolus
          The BLM DNA helicase is found in two distinct nuclear
          structures in normal human cells, ND10 or PML nuclear
          bodies (NBs) and the nucleolus [ 20]. The NBs are dynamic
          PML-dependent depots of multiple proteins disrupted upon
          viral infection and in certain human malignancies [ 21,
          22, 23]. BS cells have NBs of normal morphology [ 21,
          22], and cells lacking PML destabilize the NBs and have a
          two fold increase in the frequency of SCEs [ 22]. NBs
          have been implicated in the regulation of apoptosis [ 21,
          24, 25] although their precise function is still unknown.
          BLM expression is cell-cycle regulated, showing a marked
          increase in S phase and peaking in G2 [ 26, 27]. The
          increase in BLM mRNA and protein expression coincides
          with its appearance in the nucleolus [ 20]. This report
          uses a series of inducible cell lines containing deletion
          alleles of BLM to investigate the role of the N-terminal
          and C-terminal domains of BLM in nuclear localization and
          in the maintenance of genomic stability. We find that the
          N-terminal domain directs BLM for packaging in NBs, while
          the C-terminal domain is required for efficient nucleolar
          localization. Compared to the normal BLM protein,
          deletions of the C-terminus and mutation of the helicase
          domain have a strong negative effect on genomic stability
          whereas deletions of the N-terminus have less effect.
        
      
      
        Results
        
          GFP-BLM has in vitro DNA helicase activity
          Epitope-tagged genes facilitate the analysis of
          transfected cell lines and protein recovery. The green
          fluorescent protein (GFP) is especially useful as a
          reporter and epitope tag due to its ease in detection and
          apparent independent folding that does not interfere with
          the activity of its fusion partner [ 28]. A GFP-BLM
          expressing recombinant baculovirus was produced in Sf9
          cells. Single virus isolates expressing GFP-BLM were
          identified using FACS and PCR analysis [ 29]. Sf9 cells
          infected with the purified primary stocks were screened
          by immunofluorescent microscopy to verify accumulation of
          GFP-BLM in the nucleus (Figure 1A). This screening
          verified full length expression as GFP is fused to the
          N-terminus of BLM and the nuclear localization signal is
          in the last 100 amino acids of the 1417 amino acid BLM
          coding region [ 30]. GFP-BLM accumulates in the nucleus
          of infected Sf9 cells as large aggregates (Figure 1A).
          This observation is consistent with a report of BLM
          oligomerization [ 31]. This property is an obstacle to
          purification as only about 10% of the expressed GFP-BLM
          is soluble. GFP-BLM was purified using ion-exchange and
          metal chelate resin chromatography (Figure 1B). The
          purified protein has DNA-dependent ATPase activity and
          DNA unwinding activity (Figure 1C& 1D) equivalent to
          previous preparations without GFP expressed in 
          S. cerevisiae cells [ 10]. GFP-BLM
          has 5 units/ng unwinding activity and 10 units/ng
          DNA-dependent ATPase activity as compared to 6 units/ng
          and 7 units/ng for BLM purified from yeast. These data
          demonstrate that GFP-BLM has the same enzymatic activity
          as normal BLM and GFP-tagged variant alleles can be used
          to discover the functional domains of BLM.
        
        
          Selection and analysis of transfected cell lines
          expressing normal and mutant BLM alleles under
          doxycycline control
          An SV40-transformed BS cell line (GM0855B) was
          transfected with a plasmid containing an expression unit
          for the tetracycline or doxycycline (Tet) responsive
          transcriptional transactivator [ 32]. Only one cell line
          (HG2522.1a) out of 17 showed good responsiveness (15
          fold) and low uninduced background expression levels
          (0.25% green cells). A series of deletion alleles of the
          normal BLM cDNA (B3) [ 3] were constructed using
          restriction sites and oligonucleotide adapters (Figure
          2). These genes were made as in frame fusion genes at the
          C-terminus of EGFP and cloned behind the Tet-responsive
          promoter in plasmid pTRE. HG25221a cells were transfected
          with the normal and mutant GFP-BLM genes and stable
          hygromycin-resistant cell lines were selected. Clones
          were picked and screened for nuclear localized green
          fluorescence after induction. Cell lines expressing each
          construction were chosen for further study when the
          background level of green cells was less than 10% and the
          percentage of green cells after induction was
          reproducibly elevated (Table I).
        
        
          GFP-BLM expression can be regulated by inducer
          concentration
          The level of GFP-BLM produced with increasing amounts
          of Tet after a 24 hour induction period was determined
          (Figure 3). The expression of GFP-BLM was calculated
          relative to the amount of BLM present in a normal
          SV40-transformed fibroblast line (GM0637B). Tet
          concentrations from 0.25-2 μg/ml produced levels of
          stable GFP-BLM expression in this SV40-transformed BS
          cell line similar to the amount found in the control cell
          line. Based on these data 1 μg/ml and 24 hours were used
          as the standard induction conditions to evaluate
          localization and SCE frequency of the transfected cell
          lines.
        
        
          Stable cell lines containing the mutant proteins
          are inducible with Tet and show altered
          localization
          The cell lines chosen for study contain some
          constitutive expression of the 
          BLM alleles but show good
          reproducible induction (Table I). The localization of the
          normal and mutant GFP-BLM proteins was analyzed by
          immunofluorescent microscopy (Figure 4). Antibodies
          against PML and topoisomerase IIIα [ 33] were used as
          marker proteins for the NBs. A human autoimmune serum
          against a nucleolar antigen ANA-N was used for nucleolar
          co-localization (data not shown). The cell line
          expressing GFP alone showed diffuse nuclear and
          cytoplasmic green fluorescence (Figure 4A). The normal
          GFP-BLM fusion protein localizes to NBs and the nucleolus
          (Figure 4B) as previously reported for BLM in normal
          human fibroblasts [ 20]. The fusion protein co-localizes
          with PML and TOPIIIα (Figure 4B& 4C) as does normal
          BLM [ 20, 21, 22, 33, 34]. GFP-BLM is distributed
          throughout the nucleolus except for several central
          regions that appear as holes in the images. The
          N-terminal deletions of BLM show little NB localization
          and ΔN1 through ΔN3 retain the nucleolar localization
          pattern (Figure 4D,E,F,G). The ΔN4 fusion protein shows
          mostly diffuse localization but nucleolar localization is
          still evident (Figure 4H). In 95% or more of the cells in
          the induced populations there is little co-localization
          with PML or TOPIIIα (Figures 4D,E,F,G, Table 1). These
          results demonstrate that the normal GFP-BLM fusion
          protein restores the BLM nuclear localization pattern to
          this BS cell line and deletions of the N-terminus affect
          the packaging of BLM into the NBs.
        
        
          The N2-N4 regions of BLM are required for NB
          localization
          By visual inspection each induced cell line contains
          cells expressing different levels of the fusion proteins.
          The ΔN1 expressing cells which exhibit the most intense
          green fluorescence comprise 3% (10 cells out of 300
          counted) of the population and show co-localization of
          the GFP signal with α-PML and α-TopIIIa. This small
          number of cells is identical to cells expressing normal
          GFP-BLM (Figure 4B& 4C). The cell lines expressing
          ΔN2, ΔN3 and ΔN4 do not show NB localization (0 out of
          300 cells). Since the ΔN1 protein shows partial
          co-localization with NBs the N1 region is not absolutely
          required for BLM to be localized there. The other
          N-terminal domains are required for NB localization.
        
        
          The helicase and C-terminal mutations of BLM have
          very different effects compared to the N-terminal
          mutations
          The two GFP-fusion proteins with mutations in the
          helicase domain have different localization patterns. The
          K695T missense protein localizes to NBs, but less
          efficiently than normal BLM, and to the nucleolus with an
          altered morphology (Figure 4I). The K695T fusion protein
          is not evenly distributed throughout the outer nucleolar
          region but shows areas of concentration and larger
          central holes. The ΔH1 fusion protein has a diffuse
          localization pattern throughout the nucleus and has a
          distinct altered nucleolar localization (Figure 4J). This
          fusion protein appears in the central holes of the
          nucleolus where the normal fusion protein is not found.
          Co-localization of the H1 fusion protein and α-PML and
          TOPHI11α is seen in most cells, and fewer NBs are
          present. The GFP-fusion proteins with helicase mutations
          are packaged into the NBs and have altered nucleolar
          localization.
          The two GFP-fusion proteins with C-terminal mutations
          have different localization patterns than the N-terminal
          mutations. The ΔC 1 and ΔC2 fusion proteins co-localize
          efficiently with α-PML and α-TOPIII (Figure 4K& 4L)
          and have little nucleolar localization. In addition the
          C-terminal deletion proteins form numerous small green
          nuclear bodies that do not co-localize with either NB
          antibody (BLM bodies, BBs). These BBs are found in cells
          expressing the ΔN3 and the K695T proteins (Figure 4H&
          4I). The BBs may be due to formation of large oligomers
          or aggregates of less soluble fusion proteins. The
          significance of these aggregates is unknown. These
          observations demonstrate that the N-terminal domain of
          BLM is required for NB localization and the C-terminal
          domain is required for accumulation of BLM in the
          nucleolus.
        
        
          The mutant fusion proteins are made as stable
          full-length proteins
          The differences in localization pattern between the
          normal and mutant alleles of BLM is not due to vastly
          different levels of stable fusion protein expression.
          Western analysis showed that all of the GFP fusion genes
          are inducible and are made as full-length proteins
          (Figure 5). The N-terminal deletion fusion proteins do
          not fail to go to NBs because of reduced fusion protein
          expression in these cell lines. They are expressed as
          stable full length fusion proteins at levels close to
          those of the normal GFP-BLM fusion protein (Table I,
          Figure 5). The ΔN2 protein is relatively over-expressed
          under the induction conditions used, while the ΔN3 and
          ΔN4 proteins are expressed at near normal levels under
          the same induction conditions. The N-terminal deletion
          alleles have higher levels of constitutive expression
          relative to the C-terminal mutations and have overall
          higher levels of protein expression; one explanation is
          that the C-terminal mutations are deleterious.
        
        
          Most N-terminal mutations have little effect on
          genomic stability as measured by SCE frequency
          BS cells have an elevated frequency of SCEs [ 1]. This
          increase in homologous recombination leads to an
          increased somatic mutation frequency and genomic
          instability. The SCE frequency was assayed in the
          inducible cell lines (Figure 6, Tables 2& 3). The
          cell line expressing GFP alone had a nearly identical
          frequency of SCEs with and without induction (65 vs. 70
          exchanges per 46 chromosomes). The GFP-BLM cell line had
          an elevated baseline level (40 exchanges) but showed
          significant reduction upon addition of inducer (40 to 12
          exchanges). The ΔN1, ΔN2 and ΔN3 cell lines showed less
          reduction (17-23 exchanges) and slightly higher baseline
          levels (47-58 exchanges). These cell lines also have a
          distribution of SCEs slightly elevated relative to normal
          (Table 2, Figure 6A). The ΔN4 cell line has a different
          distribution and shows less correction of the SCE
          frequency (Table 2, Figure 6A). The N-terminal deletion
          proteins show a gradual increase in the range of the SCEs
          as the deletions approach the helicase domain (Table
          2).
        
        
          The helicase and C-terminal mutations have a
          destabilizing effect
          The helicase and C-terminal mutations have a greater
          effect on genomic stability than do the N-terminal
          mutations (Table 2& 3, Figure 6A). There is a
          polarity of loss of function seen across the gene from
          the N-terminus to the C-terminus (Figure 6A& 6B).
          Most of the C-terminal mutations appear to have a
          dominant negative effect, as the frequency of SCEs is
          higher with Tet than without. The most dramatic effects
          are seen in the ΔC1 and to a lesser degree in the ΔC2
          induced cultures, as evidenced by an elevated frequency
          of ring chromosomes [ 35] (Table 3, Figure 6C). This may
          indicate breakage and rejoining events or tangled
          telomeres. The cell line containing the helicase
          deletion, ΔH1, has an elevated basal frequency of SCEs
          and a higher chromosome number than the GFP control cell
          line (Table 3) yet does not appear to be as deleterious
          as the K695T and C-terminal deletions are when comparing
          relative SCE events. The SCE analysis of this cell line
          was complicated by difficulty in finding chromosome
          spreads and by the small number of metaphases present in
          the cultures. Many of the metaphases could not be
          counted, as the chromosomes did not separate under the
          optimized spreading conditions that worked efficiently
          for the other cell lines. The SCE assay is therefore
          biased towards resolved or more corrected metaphases and
          it is likely that the induced ΔH1 SCE frequency is
          actually higher than reported here. The SCE assay was
          successful for all cell lines indicating that the
          doubling times are close to 24 hours. This indicates that
          the overall cell cycle timing is similar in all of the
          cell lines but does not rule out variations in
          stage-specific progression.
        
        
          The expression of the C-terminal mutations is
          deleterious relative to the N-terminal mutations
          The C-terminal deletion containing cell lines have a
          higher mean chromosome number than the control and
          N-terminal deletion cell lines, except for the ΔN1 cell
          line which is somewhat elevated (Table 3). This increase
          in chromosome number suggests that the C-terminal
          mutations lead to an increase in the aneuploidy of these
          SV40-transformed cells by inhibiting proper chromosome
          separation. The increase in SCE frequency correlates with
          an overall lower level of fusion proteins in the
          C-terminal mutation cell lines and higher levels of
          protein expression in the cell lines with N-terminal
          deletions. These data demonstrate that mutation of the
          helicase and C-terminal domains of BLM have a greater
          effect on the SCE frequency than does mutation of the
          N-terminal domain.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        
          The Tet-on system has strengths and
          weaknesses
          The Tet inducible expression system has experimental
          weaknesses in that the activity of the Tet-responsive
          activator is not tightly regulated and some cells do not
          produce inducible cell lines. All of the GFP-BLM fusion
          proteins were produced at a low level in the absence of
          inducer. Cell lines with a favored reproductive potential
          grew well and multiple useful stable transfectants were
          obtained (normal BLM and N-terminal deletion genes) as
          compared to those containing deleterious mutant alleles
          (helicase and C-terminal deletions). The BS cell line
          used here lacks BLM [ 10] and all cell lines obtained
          from transfection of the normal GFP-BLM gene had a
          background level of constitutive expression leading to a
          partially corrected SCE frequency relative to the
          parental line (40 vs. 58) [ 10]. EGFP itself is not an
          innocuous protein. The cell lines expressing EGFP alone
          grew the most slowly of all of the clones in the
          collection and had a slightly elevated SCE frequency
          relative to the parental cell line (65-70 vs. 58
          exchanges) [ 10]. When co-transfections were performed
          with one plasmid containing the Tet-responsive GFP-BLM
          gene and another containing the selection unit, all of
          the cell lines tested had low SCEs without induction (4
          of 4). Only when both the GFP-BLM and
          hygromycin-resistance expression units were combined on
          the same plasmid were useful inducible clones recovered.
          Despite the time and effort required to screen multiple
          clones, some with constitutive levels of expression,
          experimentally useful cell lines were obtained that
          allowed investigation of the function of the N-terminus
          and C-terminus of BLM.
        
        
          The Tet-inducible system shows better SCE
          correction than constitutive expression
          Our previous study used stable transfected cell lines
          derived from the same SV40-transformed BS cell line used
          here, except that the normal and missense alleles of BLM
          were expressed from a constitutive promoter [ 10]. The
          normal BLM cDNA reduced the SCE frequency from 58 to 24
          exchanges per 46 chromosomes. This is partial correction
          as normal cell lines have from 4-10 exchanges per 46
          chromosomes [ 1]. In addition the cells expressing the
          helicase-defective K695T allele grew slowly and
          eventually died. These results led us to use an inducible
          expression system. In this study the SCE frequency of the
          induced normal GFP-BLM cell line is closer to correction
          (12 exchanges). The K695T protein localizes in a pattern
          similar to the normal protein yet increases the SCE
          frequency, suggesting that the dominant negative effect
          of this allele caused the cell lines made in the previous
          study to die. Despite the limitations discussed above,
          the Tet-on system allowed isolation of inducible cell
          lines which more accurately paralleled normal than did
          lines with a constitutive promoter, and allowed the
          isolation and evaluation of cell lines expressing
          deleterious alleles.
        
        
          The NBs appear to be regulatory depots for
          BLM
          All of the N-terminal deletion proteins are expressed
          at a stable level near normal, reduce the SCE frequency
          to near normal, and are not efficiently packed in the
          NBs. Cells which lack PML do not form NBs and have
          approximately a two-fold increase in SCE frequency
          relative to control cells [ 29]. This is similar to the
          SCE data for the N-terminal BLM deletions and demonstrate
          that NB localization is not a requirement for BLM
          function. NBs are likely to be storage locations or
          depots that regulate the release or recovery of BLM. All
          of the N-terminal deletion proteins except for ΔN4 show
          nucleolar morphologies and SCE frequencies close to
          normal. The ΔN4 protein has a lower correction efficiency
          and a different localization pattern than the other
          N-terminal deletions. This deletion removes a cluster of
          acidic amino acids, similar to acidic activation domains
          known to activate transcription in a variety of
          eucaryotes [ 36]. Clusters of acidic amino acids that
          function as transcriptional activation domains can also
          activate chromosomal DNA replication by interacting with
          replication protein A (RPA) [ 37]. BLM interacts with
          RPA70 in vitro [ 38] and associates with RPA clusters in
          cells [ 20]. Other studies have demonstrated that acidic
          activators can relieve nucleosomal repression and that
          the anti-repression function may be mediated by chromatin
          remodeling systems [ 39]. Deletion of this acidic cluster
          of BLM has an effect on localization and SCE frequency
          and may target BLM to RPA bound to single-stranded DNA,
          or it may allow BLM to function with chromatin remodeling
          complexes at sites of ectopic invasion events.
          The N-terminal deletions do not efficiently associate
          with TOPIIIα by immunofluorescent examination. This does
          not rule out binding with TOPIIIα in the more diffusely
          stained regions. Studies in 
          S. cerevisiae suggest that BLM and
          TOPIIIα function together as an enzymatic complex [ 33,
          34]. Alternatively TOPIIIα could regulate BLM activity by
          altering its ability to bind DNA substrates. In vitro
          binding studies [ 34] identified two regions of BLM
          (amino acids 143-213 & 1266-1417, Figure 2) that
          interact with TOPIIIα. One of these regions (143-213) is
          removed by the ΔN2 construction. The cells express
          TOPIIIα in multiple sized spherical bodies but no
          co-localization with the GFP fusion protein is evident
          (Figure 4F). It is possible that TOPIIIα binds BLM only
          when BLM is in NBs or that the C-terminal BLM binding
          domain is of low affinity.
        
        
          The nucleolus is likely to be an important site for
          BLM function
          The C-terminal deletion proteins do co-localize with
          PML and TOPIIIα in the NBs yet elevate the SCE frequency.
          The helicase and C-terminal mutations that fail to
          localize normally in the nucleolus fail to reduce the
          SCEs and implicate the nucleolus as a functional location
          for BLM during DNA replication. One study on chromosome
          abnormalities in cells from persons with BS documented an
          elevated frequency of recombination events in the
          satellite stalks of acrocentric chromosomes [ 40]. In
          this report lymphocyte chromosomes from two persons with
          BS were compared to those from unaffected persons. The
          frequency of exchanges in the BS cells was estimated to
          be 6/1000 and less than 0.1/1000 in control cells. In
          addition the cells from one of the persons with BS had
          acrocentrics with Q-bright satellites. The lymphocytes
          from this individual varied greatly with regard to the
          number of Q-bright satellites and which acrocentric
          chromosomes contained them, documenting a high frequency
          of recombination in the rDNA loci of BS cells. These data
          are consistent with a model in which BLM functions to
          untangle invasive events in multiple rDNA loci and SCEs
          are used as a bypass mechanism when BLM is absent.
        
        
          The localization of BLM in the nucleolus is not an
          artifact but rather a function specified by the
          C-terminal domain
          The precise function of the C-terminus that directs
          BLM to the nucleolus is still unclear. An NMR structural
          analysis of the HRD domain of Sgs1p and models for the
          WRN and BLM domains suggests that this region is a
          single-strand nucleic acid binding domain that functions
          as an accessory DNA binding region with the helicase
          domain [ 41]. Helicase motifs are conserved in many
          proteins. The specific function of individual helicases
          may be controlled by a substrate selection mechanism in
          the accessory regions flanking the helicase domain. The
          C-terminus may confer on BLM the ability to recognize and
          bind abnormal DNA structures such as quadraplexes [ 17].
          Alternatively the flanking regions may bind to
          recombination proteins such as RPA or RAD51 at these
          chromosomal sites [ 38]. The dominant negative nature of
          the C-terminal deletions suggests that these mutant
          proteins can be incorporated into normal BLM-containing
          complexes and inhibit function or regulation. The
          numerous BLM bodies formed by the C-terminal deletion
          fusion proteins may sequester repair complexes that BLM
          has been shown to associate with [ 42].
          Many of the cell lines showed modest levels of
          over-expression of the fusion proteins relative to levels
          of BLM found in a normal SV40-transformed cell line. The
          immunofluorescent images show an apparent greater
          accumulation of fusion protein in the nucleolus than is
          found in normal cells [ 20]. The stronger signals are
          caused by the expression levels as well as the
          sensitivity of the GFP reporter gene. When proteins are
          over-expressed they can localize non-specifically. The
          advantage of the system here is that the parental cell
          line lacks BLM and therefore the fusion protein can
          occupy normal positions without competing with endogenous
          BLM. The GFP-BLM fusion protein accumulates in the same
          nuclear structures as determined previously [ 20] and
          does not appear to cause aberrant structures at the
          levels expressed here.
        
        
          BLM most likely functions in recombinational repair
          during DNA replication
          The DNA helicases of the RecQ family are not essential
          for cellular viability but are important to genomic
          stability. Studies in model organisms suggest a role for
          the human orthologs in recombinational repair during DNA
          replication. Experimental evidence shows that RecQ and
          nuclease RecJ act together to restart stalled forks in 
          E. coli [ 43]. A recent study of
          the 
          S. cerevisiae Sgs1p gene suggests
          that it removes or prevents ectopic recombination events
          between non-homologous chromosomes [ 44]. Experiments
          with 
          X. laevis BLM demonstrates its
          requirement in a reconstituted DNA replication system [
          6]. The in vitro enzymatic activities documented for BLM,
          unwinding G4 quadraplexes, holliday junctions and D-loops
          [ 17, 18, 19], as well as the phenotypes of BS cells [ 1]
          are consistent with both of these models. BLM has been
          localized to two GC-rich repeated regions (nucleolus and
          telomeres) [ 20] where the replication machinery is
          likely to need assistance to back up in order to untangle
          stalled forks and resolve inappropriate invasive events
          between repeated sequence elements found on multiple
          chromosomes. BLM has been found in large protein complex
          with BRCA1 and multiple DNA repair and replication
          factors [ 42] that may recognize and repair abnormal DNA
          structures that occur during DNA replication. As both the
          helicase activity and the C-terminus of BLM are required
          to maintain genomic stability it is likely that the
          C-terminus of BLM recognizes abnormal DNA structures and
          the helicase activity unwinds these multi-stranded
          structures to engender efficient repair.
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        The GFP-BLM fusion protein has helicase activity in
        vitro and functions to reduce the SCE frequency in BS
        cells. Deletions of BLM expressed as GFP fusion proteins
        demonstrate that the N-terminal domain directs BLM into
        nuclear bodies and the C-terminal domain is necessary for
        efficient nucleolar localization. The stable nucleolar
        localization of BLM is not due to over-expression but
        rather to a function encoded in the C-terminus of BLM.
        Mutations in the helicase domain and deletions in the
        C-terminal domain have a dominant negative effect on the
        SCE frequency and cause an increase in chromosome
        abnormalities, whereas N-terminal deletions have relatively
        little effect. These data demonstrate that the helicase
        activity and C-terminal domain directed nucleolar
        localization of BLM is essential to maintain genomic
        stability. The NBs appear to be storage or regulatory sites
        for BLM and are not required for BLM activity.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Expression and purification of GFP-BLM
          The normal BLM cDNA (B3) [ 3] was fused to the C
          terminus of EGFP (Clontech). An 8x polyhistidine epitope
          tag was added to the N-terminus of EGFP with an
          oligonucleotide adapter
          (5'AAAACTGCAGCGGCCGCCACCATGCACCAC-CACCACACCACCACCACGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTTCACCG3').
          DNA sequencing confirmed the construction. A recombinant
          baculovirus expressing the fusion gene behind the
          polyhedrin promoter was made in Sf9 cells using
          Invitrogen's BlueBac kit according to the supplier's
          protocol. Sf9 cells were infected for 72 hours at a
          multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 1 and sorted for green
          cells by FACS analysis (MoFlo, Cytomation) at one and ten
          cells per well into 96 well microtiter plates containing
          uninfected Sf9 cells [ 29]. These primary viral stocks
          were assayed and amplified by infecting Sf9 cells in 24
          well plates. The secondary stocks were analyzed by PCR
          and screened for a nuclear-localized GFP signal [ 30].
          Viral stocks containing only the recombinant GFP-BLM
          construction were amplified to produce high titer stocks
          for expression. Maximal expression of GFP-BLM was found
          to be 72 hours of infection by western analysis with
          α-BLM [ 10]. Sf9 cells in Sf900-II medium (Invitrogen)
          were infected at a MOI of 5-10 and harvested after 72
          hours. Efficiency of infection was monitored by
          immunofluorescent microscopy (Figure 1A). The cell
          pellets were stored at -70°C.
          Cell lysis was monitored by fluorescent microscopy and
          aliquots of column fractions were assayed in the wells of
          96 well microtiter plates for green fluorescence using a
          Molecular Dynamics Storm Phosphorlmager. The frozen cell
          pellets from 500 ml spinner flask culture were lysed by
          sonication in Buffer A (50 mM Tris-HCL pH 8, 5 mM
          β-mercaptoethanol, 1 mM EDTA, 1 μg/ml leupeptin,
          pepstatin, and E64, and 1 mM PMSF) containing 450 mM NaCL
          and 1% NP40. The crude lysate was diluted 1:3 with Buffer
          A. After centrifugation (15 min at 20,000 × g at 4°C) the
          soluble material was loaded onto a BioRad Macroprep High
          Q column (2.5 cm × 20 cm) equilibrated with Buffer A +
          150 mM NaCl. The column was washed with 5 column volumes
          of Buffer A + 150 mM NaCl and 5 column volumes of Buffer
          A + 250 mM NaCl (no EDTA). GFP-BLM was eluted with Buffer
          B (Buffer A + 500 mM NaCl and no EDTA). Pooled Macroprep
          Q fractions containing GFP-BLM were loaded onto a 5 ml
          HiTrap metal chelate column (Amersham Pharmacia) charged
          with 
          NiS0 4 equilibrated in Buffer B. The
          metal chelate resin was washed with successive 10 column
          volumes of Buffer B + 10mm imidazole, Buffer B + 50 mM
          imidazole, and Buffer B + l00 mM imidazole. Highly
          purified GFP-BLM eluted in Buffer B + 200 mM imidazole
          and was stored at -70°C. Assays for DNA-dependent ATPase
          and oligonucleotide unwinding were performed as before [
          10].
        
        
          Construction of inducible cell lines expressing
          GFP-BLM and mutant alleles
          The SV40-transformed BS cell line GM0855B (blm
          Ash[2281Δ6ins7]/ bim Ash [2281Δ6ins7]) [ 3] was
          transfected with a plasmid expressing the tetracycline or
          doxycycline (Tet)-responsive transcriptional
          transactivator from a CMV promoter [ 32]. G418-resistant
          cell lines were selected in DMEM + 10% fetal bovine serum
          (Clontech, Tet-free) + 200 μg/ml Geneticin (Invitrogen).
          Seventeen G418-resistant clones were screened for
          transfection efficiency and Tet-responsiveness. The
          efficiency was measured by transient transfection of a
          CMV promoter-driven GFP gene (pEGFP-Cl, Clontech) and
          responsiveness by transfection of a Tet-regulated GFP
          gene (pBi EGFP, Clontech). One cell line (HG2551a) had an
          8% transfection efficiency (constitutive GFP) and 0.25%
          green cells without Tet and 3.8% with 1 μg/ml Tet (15
          fold induction and 45% inducible transfection efficiency
          vs. constitutive), and was chosen for transfection of
          GFP-BLM alleles.
          The BLM alleles used here were cloned as fusions with
          the C-terminus of EGFP (Clontech). The K695T missense
          allele was described before [ 10]. The deletion alleles
          of BLM were constructed using digestion with two
          restriction enzymes and insertion of an oligonucleotide
          adapter. The sites and the sequences of the adapters
          were:
          ΔN1 (EcoRI-SmaI,
          5'AATCTGCAGCTATGAAATCCC3'/5'GACGTCGATACTTTAGGG3'),
          ΔN2 (SmaI-ClaI,
          5'GGGATACTGCTATTTGCAT3'/5'CCCTATGACGATAAACGTAGC3'),
          ΔN3 (ClaI-AvrII,
          5'CGATGATCTGACTACCACCC3'/5'TACTAGACTGATGGGTGGGATC3'),
          ΔN4 (XmnI-AhdI,
          5'GCTTTCCTCAGCCAAGACAGA3'/5'CGAAAGGAGTCGGTTCTGTC3'),
          ΔH1 (NcoI-SalI,
          5'CATGAATCTGGCTG3'/5'TTAGACCGACAGCT3'),
          ΔC1 (SalI-PvuI,
          5'TCGACATTGACCAGGCGAT3'/5'GTAACTGGTCCGC3') and ΔC2
          (PvuI-EcoNI, 5'CGCTAATGAAAGGAAGAGGAAAAAGATGCCAGCCTCC
          3'/5'TAGCGATTACTTTCCTTCTCCTTTTTCTACGGT3').
          The ΔC2 construction restores the nuclear localization
          signal [ 30]. Oligonucleotides were made by Invitrogen.
          The deletion junctions were confirmed by DNA
          sequencing.
          Cell line HG2551a was transfected [ 10] with normal
          and mutant GFP-BLM genes cloned behind the Tet-responsive
          promoter in plasmid pTRE (Clontech). Stable transfected
          cell lines containing these constructions were selected
          by two methods: co-transfection of these plasmids with a
          second plasmid containing a hygromycin-resistance gene
          driven by a Herpes simplex thymidine kinase promoter or
          transfection of GFP-BLM allele plasmids that had been
          modified to contain the hygromycin-resistance gene
          expression unit. Few useful cell lines were obtained from
          the first method. Most transfected clones that were
          resistant to 200 μg/ml G418 and 200 μg/ml hygromycin did
          not produce GFP upon induction. In contrast transfection
          with the modified vector where the two expression units
          are on the same plasmid produced many useful cell lines.
          The ΔC2 cell line was from the first transfection method
          and all of the others were selected using the second.
        
        
          Immunoflourescent and western analysis of cell
          lines
          Cells were plated onto glass coverslips in 6 well
          tissue culture plates in selective medium, induced the
          next day with 1 μg/ml Tet and fixed with 2%
          paraformaldehyde 24 hours later. Immunofluorescent
          staining and microscopy was as performed previously [
          20]. Antibody against human Topoisomerase IIIα was
          provided by F. B. Johnson and L. Guarente [ 33]. Antibody
          against BLM was described before [ 10]. Antibody against
          GFP was from Roche Molecular Biochemicals. Western
          transfers were as before [ 10]. ECF and ECL reagents were
          purchased from Amersham/Pharmacia and used according to
          the supplier's instructions. SDS 4-12% polyacrylamide
          gels and Precision protein molecular weight markers were
          from BioRad.
        
        
          Sister Chromatid Exchange Assay
          Fibroblast cell cultures were divided into two T-25
          tissue culture flasks and one was induced with 1 μg/ml
          Tet the next day. After a 24 hour period of induction 20
          μM BrdU was added to both flasks. Labeling, colcemid
          treatment and harvest were as before [ 10]. Fixed
          preparations were dropped onto clean glass slides and
          stained with 0.1 mg/ml acridine orange for 5 minutes,
          followed by a wash in running water for 2 minutes and a 1
          minute incubation in Sorensen's buffer (67 mM KH 
          2 PO 
          4 + 67 mM Na 
          2 HPO 
          4 ). The wet slides were covered with
          glass coverslips and metaphases photographed immediately
          with a Zeiss Axioskop fluorescence microscope using the
          FITC filter and a 100× objective. Images were captured
          with a CCD camera (Kodak Micromax 1400) connected to an
          Apple Power Mac 9600.
        
      
    
  
