
  
    
      
        Background
        Researchers are increasingly realizing the importance of
        
        true biological replicates for
        assessing statistical confidence in microarray experiments
        [ 1 2 3 4 5 6 ] , but replication is often hindered by
        financial or technical constraints. One problem is that
        large, prefabricated microarray chips can be relatively
        expensive, driving up the total cost of an experiment. (In
        fact, the cost of a subject is often lower.) Another
        obstacle to using replicates is that the biological tissues
        from which RNA is extracted can often be of such small
        quantity by nature that it is technically difficult to get
        enough RNA sample from one subject for hybridization to one
        array [ 3 ] . Either or both of these problems have
        motivated biologists to pool RNA samples together before
        hybridization. Many research papers using this method have
        been published [ 3 4 5 ] , but the statistical properties
        of pooling have not been explicitly addressed. There are
        two different approaches of sample pooling. One is dubbed
        "complete pooling", where all samples from one treatment
        group are pooled onto one chip and there is no replication
        of chips for one treatment. This approach does not provide
        an estimate of variability among chips and therefore can
        not be used for statistical analysis. The other approach is
        dubbed "sub-pooling", where subsets of samples are randomly
        selected and pooled onto one chip but there are still
        multiple chips within each group. Here we investigated the
        statistical properties and the technical and financial
        implications of the second, sub-pooling approach.
      
      
        Results
        
          Simulation study of statistical
          characteristics
          First, simulated microarray data were used to
          investigate the statistical properties (see Methods for
          details). Figure 1shows the simulated power curves (for
          two-sample t tests) with respect to different α levels
          (i.e. type I error rates), effect sizes (i.e. differences
          of the means divided by common standard deviation), and
          sample sizes. Some well-known statistical properties are
          shown here: power increases with effect size and/or
          sample size when other conditions are fixed (e.g. curve 8
          vs. curve 5, or curve 4 vs. curve 1); but it decreases
          when α level is lowered with other conditions being fixed
          (e.g. curve 8 vs. curve 4). However, the main purpose of
          Figure 1is to demonstrate the effect of pooling. Consider
          curves 5 to 8, all of which have α level fixed at 0.05.
          Without pooling, nine replicates per group (curve 8) give
          much higher power than three replicates per group (curve
          5). With pooling, power curves are intermediate. Both
          curve 6 and curve 7 reveal the power of pooling nine
          samples onto three chips each. The difference between
          them is that equal pooling with replicates in the same
          pool contributing equally (curve 7) has better power than
          non-equal pooling (curve 6). See methods section for
          statistical justification. Notice that power curve 7 is
          not very far from power curve 8, with only one third the
          number of chips being used.
          Figure 2shows that approximately equivalent power to
          non-pooling can be achieved if the number of gene chips
          is reduced but the number of samples is increased. The
          simulated power curves for two-sample t tests for
          different pooling schemes under the same type I error
          rate control are very similar. In this figure, n25c5
          means that RNA samples from 25 subjects are randomly
          pooled onto 5 chips with 5 subjects contributing equally
          to each pool. Specifically, the power of (n25c5) ≈ power
          of (n24c6) ≈ power of (n22c11) ≈ power of (n21c7) ≈ power
          of (n20c20). Notice that power of (n25c5) ≈ power of
          (n20c20), which suggests that by randomly pooling RNA
          samples from 5 subjects onto one chip with equal
          contributions, we can decrease number of chips needed per
          group from 20 to 5 while number of subjects per group
          only needs to be increased from 20 to 25. As will be
          shown later, this may have great financial
          consequences.
        
        
          "Virtual" pooling example using data from an
          Affymetrix microarray experiment
          Blalock et al [ 2 ] investigated the correlation of
          gene expression with cognitive impairment in rats of
          different ages. Original data were from 29 Affymetrix
          microarrays. To further study the effect of pooling, we
          used 24 of the 29 arrays to do "virtual pooling". Namely,
          we first randomly selected 24 arrays and assigned them to
          two groups. P-values from two-sample t-tests on
          individual genes were recorded. Next, in each of the two
          groups, we "virtually" pooled the 12 samples onto 6, 4, 3
          arrays respectively (assuming equal contribution in each
          pool). The statistical tests were then conducted on the
          "pooled" data with degrees of freedom being reduced to 10
          (i.e. 2*(6-1)), 6 (i.e. 2*(4-1)), or 4 (i.e. 2*(3-1)),
          respectively. The P-values from the "pooled" data were
          then plotted against the original P-values. As shown in
          Figure 3, there is a good agreement of the P-values among
          the pooling schemes for the majority of the genes among
          the pooling and no pooling schemes. Table 1shows that a
          moderate percentage of those genes that are found to be
          significant at a fixed α (0.05) level can be picked up by
          designs with pooling at the same α level.
          Multiple-testing adjustment was not considered here
          because it is a separate statistical issue. Note that
          "virtual" pooling serves as indirect evidence only.
        
        
          Effect size considerations
          Because we are testing hundreds or thousands of genes
          at the same time, it is not easy to determine the effect
          size needed for power or sample size estimation. Effect
          size can vary from experiment to experiment, from one
          kind of biological sample to another, as well as from
          gene to gene. If we set the goal of an experiment to
          detect all genes that are differentially expressed at any
          scale, then the sample size needed to do so would be
          prohibitively large. Therefore, we need to set up a
          realistic goal, say, to detect genes with effect size ≥
          0.5. For a two-sample t test, this means the true
          difference between the means is one half of the common
          standard deviation. Empirical data from many experiments
          suggest that this goal is often achievable. A pilot study
          is also desirable to obtain an estimate of approximate
          effect size for specific experiments and genes. To assist
          researchers in making such estimates, we include here
          some empirical results from several experiments conducted
          in our core facility, which may provide a rough idea
          regarding the range of effect sizes that might be
          realistically expected with one type of microarray - the
          Affymetrix oligonucleotide GeneChip ®array. Of course,
          the reader should be cautious in relying on these
          numbers, as they are estimates based on pilot studies
          from only one microarray core facility.
        
        
          Financial implications of sample pooling and
          optimal pooling design
          Since a microarray chip often costs more than a
          biological subject and we have more than one pooling
          design to achieve the same statistical control, it is
          possible for us to search for the most cost effective
          pooling design while maintaining the desired statistical
          properties. For a given combination of maximal type I
          error rate, minimal power, and the estimated or expected
          effect size to be detected, there are multiple pooling
          designs that may satisfy these conditions. We can compare
          the total cost of chips and subjects for each design and
          choose the one with minimal total cost, provided it is
          technical feasible. While this is a simplified economic
          framework (because it does not consider other cost in the
          experiment), it manifests the major point of the
          financial efficiency with pooling. An example function
          written in R language used to automate the searching and
          comparing process is attached as an additional file.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Assessing variability on a per gene basis is an
        increasingly important aspect of microarray analysis. In
        the present paper we demonstrate that variance could be
        estimated accurately with different pooling schemes, and
        that the chip cost (and therefore experimental cost) can be
        dramatically affected by decisions regarding the pooling
        scheme employed. Many researchers are aware that replicates
        of biological samples are needed to assess experimental
        error. Even though thousands of genes are interrogated
        simultaneously on each chip, estimates of variance based on
        these measures do not of course include biological variance
        for any single gene in question. In this paper, we
        addressed the question of how many replicates are needed to
        achieve adequate power while considering an efficient
        technical procedure that is applicable in microarray
        experiments.
        Since the specific design and data processing of
        microarrays can cause some confusion about what constitutes
        true replicates, it is important to distinguish technical
        replicates from biological replicates. In the Affymetrix
        microarray, 11 to 20 probe pairs are used to measure
        expression level of a probe set. It is important to note
        that these duplicated probe pairs are different measurement
        units rather than experimental units. The true biological
        replicates are the arrays (provided that they do not
        measure the same biological sample). An estimate of
        variability among the probe pairs reveals the precision of
        the measurement at the probe level but not the variability
        among biological samples. The latter is usually what is
        needed when conducting statistical hypothesis testing in
        order to make inferences about differential gene expression
        under various treatment or environmental conditions.
        Confusion between technical duplicates and biological
        replicates can sometimes lead to misconceptions in
        conducting and interpreting statistical tests. Based on the
        intensity readings on the probe pairs, Affymetrix
        Microarray Suite Version 5.0 gives a "change P-value" for
        the comparison analysis of each probe set ("gene") between
        a baseline chip and an experiment chip (MAS V 5.0 manual)
        based on Wilcoxon signed rank test. According to the
        manual, the change P-value indicates the significance of
        the difference between the experimental chip and the
        baseline chip. However, it should be noted that a
        significant difference of gene expression between a 
        single chip from the experimental
        group and a 
        single chip from the baseline group
        can not provide statistical evidence to show that the two
        groups are different. Often the goal of comparing a
        treatment group to a control group is to detect the true
        difference of the population means, and the "change
        P-value" is not the appropriate P-value for that goal.
        To overcome the difficulty of estimating the variance of
        microarray data with few or no biological replicates,
        so-called "cross-gene models", "global error models" or
        "local error models" have been proposed [ 7 8 ] . According
        to such models, genes with similar expression levels from
        the same chip can be "borrowed" to construct a pseudo
        sample as the basis to estimate the "global" or "local"
        errors for each individual gene. This is very appealing
        because "Statistical group comparisons can now be done on
        experiments without replicates by using the global error
        model" [ 8 ] . However, these algorithms are based on two
        implicit assumptions that are difficult to support:
        (1). The measurement of the expression of a gene on one
        single chip can be used to estimate the 
        true population mean expression of
        that gene. This assumption is often false because an
        observed intensity can be far from the 
        true mean with moderate or high
        probability. For example, even if gene expression
        measurements follow a perfect normal distribution, the
        chance that a measurement falls beyond one standard
        deviation from the mean on either side is as large as
        32%.
        (2). Genes with similar measurement values "share" the
        same variance within the treatment group. This assumption
        may be reasonably accurate for some genes (e.g. those with
        low expression intensities), but empirical observations
        show that it is clearly not true for all genes, especially
        for those with high intensity.
        The cross gene error model references for support the
        two component error model proposed by Rocke et al [ 9 ] and
        Durbin et al [ 10 ] but those papers made it very clear
        that true replication could not be circumvented, especially
        to estimate variances for genes with high expression. (For
        additional discussion on different sources of error in
        microarray experiments, see [ 10 11 12 13 ] .)
        Except under very restrictive models, duplicate
        observations per chip do not provide valid estimates of
        variability among subjects. Hence, multiple chips per
        treatment group, each measuring an RNA sample from a
        separate biological subject or pooled groups of subjects,
        are required for statistical analysis. However, this
        approach often entails financial and/or technical
        difficulties. To address these issues, we tested RNA sample
        pooling and showed that it provides an efficient
        alternative solution. Because arrays are usually more
        expensive than subjects, sample pooling frequently may help
        defray the total cost of an experiment. The larger the
        difference between the cost of a single array and that of a
        single subject, the more the sub-pooling strategy will
        save. Simulated microarray data and "virtual pooling" of
        actual data utilized here as well as statistical theory
        suggest that the underlying principles of this proposal are
        sound. Note that even with pooling, we still show a
        requirement for reasonable replication of (pooled) arrays
        because there is no other way to assess biological
        variation.
        A limitation of our current study is that we have yet to
        conduct a definitive experiment in which the same
        biological samples are compared with or without pooling.
        Although this has not been done, we nevertheless have
        indirect supporting evidences from multiple actual
        microarray experiments. After analyzing data from over 50
        research projects ( 
        with replications ) done in our
        facility, we have consistently seen smaller within-group
        variability (and more genes with significant differences)
        in experiments using appropriate RNA pooling strategies
        than those with approximately the same number of arrays
        that did not employ pooling. This observation implies that
        experiments with pooling have greater power than those
        without pooling for a fixed number of chips, when
        conditions are comparable (i.e. similar experimental
        conditions, statistical methods and multiple testing
        correction procedures, etc.). In addition, a recent study [
        5 ] found high correlation between the intensities from the
        calculated pool and those from the actual pool using the
        same samples, (although in that study the pooling effect on
        reducing variance was not explicitly addressed).
        RNA pooling may also have adverse consequences, and can
        be inappropriate in some cases. Pooling should not be used
        if inferences are needed for single subjects. For example,
        when the goal of the research is to correlate gene
        expression with some other variables measured at the
        subject level [ 2 ] or to identify gene profiles that help
        classify individual subjects and predict their membership
        in groups (e.g. cancer patients vs. normal patients).
        Pooling will also prevent later analysis of the data on
        variables that may have been ignored initially. As an
        example, suppose that we pooled all samples from the same
        gender and compared the differential expression of some
        genes between the two genders. This would make it
        impossible to subsequently analyze differential gene
        expression related to aging effects since samples from
        different ages would have been pooled together. The
        researcher must decide at the outset whether the potential
        loss of information is outweighed by the increased
        statistical power and cost-efficiency of the design.
        Similarly, pooling will prevent users from finding
        differences in expression that might divide only one set of
        samples. For example, if the goal of the experiment is to
        find genes that help differentiate subtypes of colon
        cancers rather than between colon cancer and healthy
        tissues, then it is inappropriate to pool cancer
        subtypes.
        As pointed out by one reviewer, sample pooling is able
        to reflect group-specific variance, but assumes that
        residual individual variance is not influenced by the group
        variable. While this assumption may be a reasonable first
        approximation, it does not allow for the possibility of a
        cross-product relationship in which a group-specific
        variable (for example, toxic exposure) might lead to
        informative sub-states that exhibit separate groups of
        coordinately regulated responsive genes as a function of
        the extent to which the individual responds. Thus, there
        may also be loss of information regarding possible
        cross-product relationships by pooling. The experimenter
        should be aware of this caveat before deciding to pool
        samples.
        There are also a few technical concerns with pooling.
        Theoretically, the more samples pooled, the greater the
        improvement in power. Practically, however, researchers may
        be reluctant to pool more than five samples to one chip due
        to technical limitations, and here we restricted our
        comparisons among pool sizes to no more than five. Further,
        we recommend pooling RNA samples instead of tissue or cell
        samples, because the variability at the tissue level is
        usually larger than at the RNA level. However, as long as
        equal contribution is assured, pooling at the tissue level
        should not make a big difference.
        Finally, although we used only Affymetrix
        oligonucleotide data models as examples in this paper, the
        same principles should be readily applicable to two color
        cDNA arrays as well. In general, pooling should have
        similar advantages for more complex experimental designs
        (such as factorial designs, time course designs, etc.),
        when inferences are being made at the group level.
      
      
        Conclusions
        Appropriately designed RNA sample pooling can provide
        adequate statistical power, and improve efficiency and
        cost-effectiveness, for many types of microarray
        experiments when inferences are made at the group level.
        However, researchers have to consider the pros and cons of
        pooling for their experimental objectives. Designing
        optimal pooling schemes to achieve statistical control with
        minimal total cost is readily possible before the
        experiments are conducted.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Mixtures of Individual Gene Expressions
          Gene expression levels for a single gene for 
          n subjects will be denoted as X 
          1 ,...,X 
          n . If the RNA samples from 
          p subjects are randomly selected
          and pooled, then we can model the resulting gene
          expression level as , where w 
          1 ,..., 
          w 
          
            p 
           are the mixing coefficients. These coefficients may
          be random. If the original gene expression levels, X 
          1 ,...,X 
          n , are identically and independently
          distributed random variables with mean μ and variance σ
          2and the mixing coefficients are independent of the
          individual gene expression levels, then we have
          σ 2/ 
          p ≤ 
          Var ( 
          X *) ≤ σ 2. (1)
          This result follows immediately from the fact that
          
          and
          
          Since , (1) follows. Note that the lower bound is
          achieved when the mixing coefficients are equal; i.e.,
          uniform mixing. This shows that RNA pooling reduces
          variance and the minimal variance of the mixture is
          achieved with equal pooling.
        
        
          Relative Efficiency
          As far as the number of chips needed is concerned, the
          relative efficiency of pooling 
          n subject to 
          n / 
          p chips with uniform mixing can be
          computed as:
          
          as 
          n → ∞ and 
          p / 
          n → 0. Hence, when 
          p samples are equally mixed, we
          need approximately 1/ 
          p of the original number of chips
          to achieve similar power with pooling when both 
          n is large and 
          p / 
          n is small. This is a large sample
          result and does not take into account the loss of degrees
          of freedom for the test. Next, we consider the effects of
          both aspects on statistical power.
        
        
          Power Equivalence
          Although pooling RNA samples with uniform mixing
          substantially reduces the variability among chips within
          a group, this may not result in an increase in power
          while testing differences among groups with a fixed
          number of subjects. Here we investigate the power of the
          two-sample t-test. Let X 
          1 ,...,X 
          n be identically and independently
          distributed with N(μ 
          1 , σ 
          1 2) and Y 
          1 ,...,Y 
          n be identically and independently
          distributed with N(μ 
          2 , σ 
          2 2). For simplicity, let σ 
          1 2= σ 
          2 2= σ 2. Suppose we use two-sample
          t-test to test H 
          0 : μ 
          1 = μ 
          2 against H 
          a : μ 
          1 <μ 
          2 . Without pooling, the t statistic
          follows the central t distribution 
          f ( 
          t, df 
          1 ) with 
          df 
          1 = 2( 
          n - 1) under H 
          0 ; while under H 
          a , it follows a non-central t
          distribution with 
          df 
          1 and non-centrality parameter , which
          is inversely related to the standard deviation σ. For a
          fixed α level, we can find a critical value t 
          0 under H 
          0 such that . To compute the power, we
          only need to find the rejection region corresponding to t
          
          0 under the alternative non-central t
          distribution 
          g ( 
          t, df 
          1 , δ): . Now when the 
          n samples are randomly assigned
          into pools of size 
          p with equal mixing, power is
          decreased because the degrees of freedom are reduced to 
          df 
          2 = 2( 
          n / 
          p - 1), which makes the tails of
          the central t distribution under H 
          0 heavier and thus the critical value
          t 
          0 * will be further from 0, while the
          non-centrality parameter is unchanged: (since the
          variance is reduced to σ 2/ 
          p and the number of chips reduced
          to 
          n / 
          p ). However, if 
          n + 
          k subjects with pool size 
          p are compared to 
          n subjects without pooling, then
          the power change is not monotonic. The loss of power due
          to reduction of degrees of freedom will be partially
          compensated by gain of power due to increase of effect
          size. This can be seen by noting that the non-centrality
          parameter for pooling is now , which is non-trivially
          larger than . This shifts the alternative distribution
          further away from the null distribution and thus
          increases power. Hence we have heuristically shown that
          the power change is not monotonic when decreasing
          replication of chips while simultaneously increasing
          number of subjects. This implies that power can be
          preserved with the right choice of (subject) sample size
          and pool size. Many statistical software packages, such
          as R, S Plus or SAS, have built-in functions for both
          central and non-central t distributions and thus we can
          write programs to evaluate the power change or equivalent
          power curves under different pooling schemes. For two
          sided two-sample t test or experiments with more than 2
          treatment groups, we can use the central and non-central
          F distributions rather than t distributions. The power
          equivalence should be very similar. Readers not very
          familiar with the above statistical concepts are referred
          to [ 14 15 16 ] .
        
        
          Simulation study
          To investigate the above properties, we generated
          random samples based on two-treatment design and then
          compared the performance of different pooling schemes. We
          simulated microarray data as follows: randomly generate a
          data matrix of 5000 rows and 2 
          n columns, with each row represents
          one gene and each column represents one subject. The
          first 
          n subjects are random samples from
          a normal distribution with mean μ 
          1 and standard deviation σ; the last 
          n subjects are random samples from
          a normal distribution with mean μ 
          2 and standard deviation σ, where .
          For each row, μ 
          1 was generated from a uniform
          distribution U(0, 30000) and standard deviation σ is set
          to be 0.2 * μ 
          1 . The effect size δ was specified
          for every data matrix.
          Simulation of power curves without pooling: for δ from
          0 to 4.0, 
          n from 3 to 30, we generated data
          matrices and then performed two-sample t tests on each
          row between the first 
          n observations and the last 
          n observations. For each specified
          δ, 
          n and α level (0.05 or 0.01), we
          repeated the above simulation 1000 times and recorded the
          proportion of rejections, 
          R 
          α, δ, 
          n  , for each iteration. We
          then calculated the averaged 
          R 
          α, δ, 
          n  as the simulated power.
          Simulation of power curves with pooling: similar to
          the above with the only difference being that the
          two-sample t tests were performed on first 
          m pools and last 
          m pools, where each of the 
          m pools is the average of 
          p subjects randomly selected from
          the original 
          n subjects. Note that 
          n = 
          m * 
          p and we used sampling without
          replacement. This is to simulate the scenario of equal
          pooling.
        
      
      
        Authors' Contributions
        XP carried out the study. CLW and AJS supervised the
        study. EMB, KC, and PWL contributed discussions. All
        authors contributed to writing the manuscript. All authors
        read and approved the final manuscript.
      
    
  
