
  
    
      
        Background
        Genomic cloning has revealed that most of the enzyme
        families essential for maintaining cell growth have been
        conserved throughout evolution [ 1 ] . However, mammalian
        enzymes with different functional activity may have evolved
        by combining elements from several bacterial ancestral
        genes. Even small proteins may contain several individual
        domains that link them to different superfamilies [ 2 ] .
        While many endonucleases share a common active site that is
        highly conserved across many subfamilies, identifying
        residues that control substrate specificity requires
        sophisticated analysis that combines both sequence
        conservation and structural data [ 3 4 5 ] .
        In this paper we distinguish, using a word-based
        "molego" approach, structural elements that control
        substrate specificity. We postulate here that elements
        conserved in all the members of related protein families
        dictate common structures and also common "functions",
        i.e., individual steps in a complex reaction. Areas that
        affect substrate specificity will be less conserved in the
        superfamily than they are in subfamilies of enzymes that
        catalyze specific activities. We have chosen to illustrate
        this approach using the multifunctional family of DNA
        repair proteins, the apurinic/apyrimidinic endonucleases
        (APEs), which have a clearly defined bacterial ancestor, 
        E. coli exonuclease III (ExoIII), and
        are distantly related to several enzymes with varying
        substrate specificity.
        APEs are essential for mammalian cell growth and
        bacterial survival in the presence of ionizing radiation
        and DNA mutagens [ 6 ] . They initiate repair of an abasic
        DNA site by cleaving the phosphodiester backbone 5' of the
        phosphodeoxyribose. This generates the necessary 3'
        hydroxyl group for DNA polymerases (pol β, δ or ε, in
        eukaryotes) to insert the correct nucleotide in later steps
        in the base excision repair pathway (BER-pathway) [ 7 8 ] .
        Recent crystal structures of huAPE1 complexed with DNA
        containing an abasic site [ 9 10 11 ] , combined with
        sequence analysis and site-directed mutagenesis, have
        defined the residues that participate in metal ion based
        cleavage of the phosphate backbone of the DNA [ 12 13 14 15
        16 17 ] .
        Mutations that greatly diminish the enzymatic activity
        of huAPE1 do not affect, and may even increase binding to
        damaged DNA, while non-specific DNA binding remains low [
        16 18 ] . Further, mutations that have little effect on APE
        activity in vitro prevent complementation of DNA repair
        deficient 
        E. coli . As seen with other DNA
        repair enzymes [ 19 ] , specificity determining residues,
        as yet unidentified for APEs, must be distinct from those
        involved in phosphorolysis.
        To better assess which residues determine specificity,
        we assume that functions unique to APEs will be determined
        by motifs that are not conserved in a similar fashion in
        families with a different activity spectrum of functions.
        Besides cleaving the phosphate backbone, to achieve
        specificity APEs must coordinate a series of functions,
        including: interaction with target DNA in a series of
        small, possibly repetitive steps (scanning), locating
        damage sites, establishing the transition state complex,
        completing the cleavage, re-adjusting the charge status
        within the active site, and regulating release of product
        after interaction with the next enzyme in the BER pathway [
        20 21 22 23 24 25 ] . A finer breakdown of these functions
        can be achieved at the molecular level once all the
        residues in the reaction mechanism are known. APEs also
        have RNase H, 3'-exonuclease, and 3'-phosphodiester
        activities that are particularly high in the bacterial
        members of the family [ 26 13 ] .
        Our web-based MASIA program [ 27 ] was used to rapidly
        decompose the sequences of APEs and related protein
        families into motifs, areas of significant conservation in
        members of identical function, which could then be
        correlated structurally using data from crystal structures.
        Having determined that 12 motifs were common to all APE1's,
        we compared the structure of the subset of these that
        occurred in both DNase 1 and synaptojanin, a member of the
        IPP family. These shared motifs had a similar 3D structure
        in representatives of these functionally diverse families,
        and we therefore called these motifs "molegos" (molecular
        legos). We then demonstrated that the shared molegos served
        a similar role in substrate binding by comparing the DNA
        binding profile of huAPE1 with that for the less specific
        enzyme DNase 1. The molegos present in both enzymes
        interact with target DNA in a similar fashion, while
        residues in molegos distinctive for APE1 control
        specificity by binding primarily to the bases around the
        apurinic site. Matching of molegos, guided by the degree of
        conservation of individual residues across the three
        families, allowed a better alignment of the individual
        secondary structure elements among the proteins than DALI
        achieved. This word based, sequence (motif) to structure
        (molego) to function method has clear implications for
        genomic analysis and template based homology modeling, as
        well as immediate application in recognizing specificity
        determinants in proteins that share active sites common to
        many enzymes [ 28 ] .
      
      
        Results
        
          Total sequence decomposition of human Ape1 with
          MASIA
          MASIA identified 12 motifs as conserved in all members
          of the APE family (Figure 1and Table 1). As table 1, last
          column, illustrates, these motifs include all the
          residues known to be essential for DNA cleavage. Most of
          the highly conserved (greater than 90%) residues have
          been shown by previous mutagenesis studies to affect
          activity. The 12 motifs are also structurally conserved,
          as demonstrated by the low RMSD values between segments
          in the crystal structures of bacterial ExoIII and of
          huAPE1. These two proteins are only 26% identical (based
          on a DALI, structure based alignment) and most of the
          similar segments are contained in the molegos. As the
          third column of the table demonstrates, the backbone
          deviation of the segments is overall <1 Å and for 5 of
          the motifs, <0.5 Å. We have chosen the name "molegos"
          for the structural units associated with motifs, which
          are presented pictorially in Figures 2and 3. Most of the
          DNA and metal ion binding molegos form individual
          β-strands at the core of the protein that orient the
          absolutely conserved residues toward the substrate, but
          several have a helical or hydrogen bonded coil
          structure.
          The 12 motifs, which account for about half of the
          protein, are bridged by areas that vary in the different
          members of the APE family. These connecting regions may
          account for the differing activities of the bacterial and
          mammalian proteins. The longest molego, 7, was broken
          down into two areas, with the contiguous region labeled
          7a. The first 7 residues of the 7a area molego are quite
          similar in the bacterial and mammalian APE. However, the
          end is differently conserved in eukaryotes. The
          endonuclease activity of DNase 1 is reduced many fold by
          integrating this loop from 
          E. coli exonuclease III, but the
          mutant cleaves at abasic sites in DNA with low efficiency
          [ 29 ] . Thus additional residues in the APEs control
          specificity while still allowing a reasonable rate of
          phosphorolytic cleavage.
        
        
          Finding APE molegos in the DNase 1
          superfamily
          In an effort to functionally annotate the molegos of
          APE1, we next sought to find them in other proteins that
          shared some structural similarity to APE. The APEs,
          DNase-1 and inositol 5'-polyphosphate phosphatases (IPP)
          have been grouped according to the SCOP database [ 30 ]
          as the DNase-1 like superfamily. Although DNase 1 has
          only 18% overall sequence identity and the IPP domain of
          synaptojanin, 14%, to APE1, we could show that most of
          the areas of identity were in molegos common to all three
          proteins. Motifs in other protein families were
          identified by genomic cross-networking with PSIBLAST (see
          methods for details). Our analysis identified 5 molegos
          that are common to the DNase 1, IPP and APE families,
          which roughly correspond to areas of sequence similarity
          identified previously [ 31 32 ] . The structural
          similarities of molegos 1,2, 7, 11 and 12 (i.e., the
          segmental RMSD's) between APE1 and representatives of the
          distantly related DNase 1 and IPP families are comparable
          to those found between members of the APE family (Figure
          4and Table 1& 2).
        
        
          Common molegos form a similar active site in two
          distant relatives
          The 12 conserved molegos form the β-barrel core of
          huAPE1. The completely conserved residues of huAPE1
          concentrate, for the most part, at one end of this
          framework to form the metal ion binding active site
          (Figure 4). This core is also common to DNase 1 and
          synaptojanin(an IPP family member), which share the
          functions of metal ion based cleavage of a phosphate
          backbone. The shared molegos define an active site
          architecture conserved in all three proteins, including
          the orientation of the substrate toward the metal binding
          site.
        
        
          Molegos define functional areas common to DNase 1
          and APE1
          A contact plot of huAPE1 with the DNA in the 1DE8
          crystal structure (Figure 5) shows that motifs 1-3,5-8,
          and 10-12 all have residues close to the substrate, an
          oligonucleotide containing an abasic site (AP-DNA). The
          N-terminal motifs 1-3 and 5 bind primarily 5' to the
          apurinic site and to the 3' end of the undamaged strand.
          The other motifs bind more to the area 3' of the damage
          site. Motifs 10 and 12 span both strands of the DNA.
          Although motif 12 contains several highly conserved
          residues that, according to mutagenesis results (Table 1)
          contribute to APE1 activity, only His309 is very close to
          the abasic site in the DNA. Molegos 4 and 9 contain no
          residues in contact with the DNA or metal ion. Comparing
          the binding of APE in a substrate complex (Figure 6,
          left) suggests that APE's binding to the 5' end of the
          DNA after cleavage (Fig. 5), especially that mediated by
          molego 3, is stronger, while the distance from the
          protein to the DNA 3' of the cleavage site increases.
          The contact plots of APE1 and DNase1 with their
          respective substrates (Figure 6) documents that the
          similar molegos in the proteins serve similar functions.
          The N-terminal 100 residues of both proteins, including
          molegos 1 and 2, bind 5' of the cleavage site and to the
          3' end of the opposite DNA strand. Molegos 7, 11 and 12
          bind to one base 5' and the next base 3' of the cleavage
          site in both proteins. Overall, the pattern of protein
          contacts to the cleavage site, the area 5' of the
          cleavage site, and the 3' end of the opposite strand are
          common to both proteins, suggesting that the functions of
          forming the substrate complex and the actual
          phosphorolysis are similar in both proteins.
          While the length of the DNA in both cases is similar,
          DNase 1 clearly has less binding to bases opposite and 3'
          of the cleavage site. The extensive contacts that APE1
          makes to these positions are mediated by molegos it does
          not share with DNase 1. Molegos 6, 7a and 10 all have
          residues within hydrogen bonding distance of the three
          basepairs 3' of the AP-site. This redundancy of binding
          to the 3' side is unique to APE, as is its strong binding
          to the DNA opposite the abasic site.
          The importance of such bonds for activity was shown in
          other work, where huAPE1's binding to the DNA backbone is
          only inhibited by ethylation of the phosphates two and
          three positions 3' to an abasic site [ 18 ] . Mutation of
          R177A, at the end of Molego 6, that binds to this region
          and to the bases opposite the AP-site had enhanced
          activity [ 11 ] , while mutations at W280 (Molego 11) and
          F266 (Molego 10) [ 33 ] reduce activity and, in the
          latter case, substrate selectivity.
          In work from this group that will be described
          separately, we used this analysis to generate mutants of
          APE1 with altered activity. An alanine substitution
          mutant, N226A, of a conserved residue at the end of
          molego 7a that forms a hydrogen bond with the second
          phosphate group downstream of the abasic site, had
          enhanced APE activity but increased Km and Kd values,
          similar to an alanine mutant of R177, which binds to the
          same site, reported previously [ 34 ] . A combination of
          the two mutants, N226A and R177A, substantially reduced
          the ability of APE1 to bind to DNA containing an abasic
          site (Izumi et al., in preparation). Thus, molegos can
          effectively guide the redesign of enzymes to alter
          specificity.
        
        
          Molegos to improve structural alignment
          Using molegos may also help in aligning proteins for
          template based modeling, by determining the end points of
          secondary structure elements in alignments with many gaps
          and insertions. According to MASIA analysis, the residues
          K/R and DI at the N-termini of motifs 1 and 2 are
          absolutely conserved in the three families, APEs, DNase1s
          and IPPs. However, matching these conserved residues
          between synaptojanin and DNase1 or APE requires a gapping
          that would not be consistent with CLUSTALW or a
          structural (DALI [ 35 ] ) alignment of these proteins
          (Table 2). If the local alignment with synaptojanin is
          gapped to align these residues in the three proteins
          (Table 2, gapped), the RMSD for the two sections
          separated by the gap is much lower than that if one tries
          to align the whole ungapped segment. As Fig.
          7illustrates, the local environments of both conserved
          residue pairs DI and QE are structurally equivalent in
          all three proteins, indicating that a motif based
          alignment with a two residue gap is correct. The first
          two β-strand molegos in synaptojanin are 2 residues
          longer than in APE or DNase 1. By regarding these
          elements as simple lego style blocks, and recognizing the
          connectivity, molego based alignment correctly defined
          the changing length of the secondary structure
          elements.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        
          Is the specificity of APE determined by binding 3'
          to an abasic site?
          Crystal structure data, coupled with molego analysis,
          outlined the areas of APE1 that distinguish its mode of
          DNA binding from the less specific DNase 1. Contact maps
          (Figure 6) illustrate how the conserved motifs direct DNA
          binding in the distributive (i.e., rapidly releasing
          substrate/product), relatively non-specific DNase1 as
          opposed to the processive, highly specific huAPE1. Both
          enzymes cleave only one DNA strand in a duplex and
          bacterial Xth cleaves ssDNA containing an abasic site [
          42 ] . The additional contacts huAPE1, compared to DNase
          1 (Figure 6), makes 3' to the damage site and to the
          opposite strand lower its turnover rate and its potential
          to cleave normal DNA. The residues contacting the region
          3' to the abasic site come from three different uniquely
          conserved areas of APEs (molegos 6,7a, 10) as well as 11,
          a molego that is similar to that in DNase-1. These
          observations, coupled with DNA ethylation data [ 18 ] ,
          indicates that 3' binding is a key element in specific
          recognition by APEs.
          This is confirmed by site directed mutagenesis
          studies. Of the four protein areas that bind to the DNA
          3' of the abasic site, mutating F266 (molego 10) or W280
          (middle of molego 11) decreases APE activity [ 33 ] . The
          F266 mutation is particularly interesting, as the mutants
          at this position had reduced substrate specificity and
          enhanced 3'-exonuclease activity. However, an R177A
          mutant had 
          enhanced APE activity [ 11 ] ,
          as do mutations at N226 (Izumi et al., in preparation).
          Combining these mutations however greatly decreases
          substrate binding (Izumi et al., in preparation). The 3'
          approach to the DNA [ 34 ] and the wide area covered by
          the protein on both sides of the abasic site [ 14 ] are
          both consistent with the need to hold the product until
          the correct polymerase moves in 5' to 3' to complete the
          repair [ 25 ] . This implies that the mammalian enzyme
          has evolved to be processive, to facilitate more
          efficient functioning of the overall BER pathway, and may
          not be optimized for simple catalysis. Processivity is an
          important facit of the activity of enzymes that function
          in complex pathways [ 43 ] . Reduced processivity may
          explain, for example, the repair deficits in Xeroderma
          pigmentosum (XPA) cells [ 44 ] . Our molego approach
          provides a basis for exploring the role of segments of
          the protein in its functions, rather than relying only on
          data from missense mutations.
        
        
          Using molegos to detect structural and functional
          homologues
          We have demonstrated here the derivation and uses of
          molegos for analyzing the specificity of enzymes, based
          on those derived from the APE family. The methodology can
          be used to complement searches with programs such as
          PSIBLAST and PROSITE [ 41 ] to detect distantly related
          functional or structural homologues in sequences revealed
          by genome sequencing. PSIBLAST searches often reveal
          areas of local similarity in proteins that have no
          significant overall sequence identity. Molego analysis
          could be useful to analyze the significance of such
          findings. The combined sequence and structure definition
          makes molegos more flexible for defining shared protein
          elements than methods such as PROSITE that require a
          strict one-dimensional definition. An improved motif
          definition method, based on physical property similarity
          [ 42 ] , which has been incorporated into our MASIA tool]
          also promises to enhance the usefulness of the method.
          This may eventually lead to a method to find functional
          relationships between proteins with even lower overall
          sequence similarity.
          Another potential area for applying the molego
          approach is in homology modeling. Molegos may prove
          useful in to check alignments for template based modeling
          of homologues with low identity (Table 2and Figure 7), if
          the "anchoring" residues are conserved in sequence or
          property across the members of both subfamilies. Our
          molego approach is closest in principle to that of the
          ROSETTA program [ 45 ] whereby the latter seeks only to
          connect structure, not function, to a sequence element.
          We are currently testing the usefulness of the molego
          approach in modeling in the CASP5 competition.
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        The MASIA program can parse sequences into discrete
        blocks of significant conservation. The motifs identified
        in the APE family could be structurally annotated using
        crystal data to derive molegos, words in the protein
        sequence that correlate with structural elements. These
        molegos could in turn be functionally annotated by
        comparing the DNA binding profile of APE1 with that of the
        less specific nuclease DNase 1. This analysis indicated
        that residues binding 3' to the site of phosphorolytic
        cleavage control the substrate specificity of APE1. These
        results indicate that molegos can provide a useful basis
        for identifying specificity determining regions in enzymes
        with similar active sites but different activity spectra [
        46 28 3 ] . Site directed mutagenesis based on these
        results can define the function of the unique elements of
        the APEs, and aid in the design of enzymes with altered
        specificity.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Sequence alignment
          A BLAST [ 47 ]
          http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/search of the
          "non-redundant" protein database using the whole sequence
          of human APE1 yielded over 100 related sequences. Some
          sequence entries represented the same protein, called by
          different names or isolated in different screens,
          including many entries for huAPE1, 
          Drosophila Rrp 1 protein (~40%
          identical to the mammalian APE1 in the C-terminal third
          of the protein), Xth from 
          E. coli , and counterparts of this
          and exodeoxyribonuclease (exo A) sequences from many
          bacteria, which are about 25% identical to mammalian
          APE1. The mammalian sequences are highly conserved, with
          only 6 non-conservative residue variations between the
          human and murine sequences, 5 of which occur in the
          apparently unstructured N-terminus. Several proteins with
          more distant relationship to APE1, such as mammalian and
          yeast APEIIs, and the CRC protein from 
          Pseudomonas , which has no APE
          activity [ 48 ] were in the BLAST list, but were not used
          for this analysis. To derive functional motifs, the BLAST
          list was culled to 37 unique sequences with identity
          ranging from 25% to 98%. These were aligned using the
          default parameters of CLUSTALW [ 49 50 ]
          http://www2.ebi.ac.uk/clustalw/. Sequences were the APE1
          protein from human, bovine, monkey, rat murine, 
          Arabidopsis thaliana (Mouse-ear
          cress) 
          Dictyostelium discoideum (Slime
          mold), 
          Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Fission
          yeast), 
          Caenorhabditis elegans , 
          Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Baker's
          yeast), 
          Thermoplasma acidophilum , 
          Neisseria meningitidis . 
          Methanobacterium
          thermoautotrophicum , 
          Leishmania major , 
          Trypanosoma cruzi , 
          Coxiella burnetii ; the Rrp1
          protein of 
          Drosophilia ; exonuclease III from 
          E. coli , 
          Bacillus subtilis , 
          Mycobacterium tuberculosis , 
          Haemophilus influenzae , 
          Salmonella typhimurium , 
          Helicobacter pylori , 
          Rickettsia prowazekii , 
          Archaeoglobus fulgidus , 
          Actinobacillus
          actinomycetemcomitans , 
          Streptomyces coelicolor , 
          Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, 
          Haemophilus influenzae ;
          Exonuclease A from 
          Steptococcus pneumonia , 
          Treponema pallidum , 
          Borrelia burgdorferi . 
          Plasmodium falciparum . Different
          set conditions and sequence lists were tested in CLUSTALW
          for their effect on alignment and subsequent motif
          definition with MASIA. Areas peripheral to the
          endonuclease domain, such as the 50 amino acid mammalian
          and the 428 residue 
          Drosophila Rrp-1 N-terminal regions
          were eliminated to improve the consensus.
        
        
          Identification of motifs using MASIA
          Motifs were identified in the aligned sequences using
          the MASIA consensus macro
          http://www.scsb.utmb.edu/masia/masia.html. Motifs start
          when at least 3 of 4 consecutive positions are more than
          40% conserved according to the dominant criterion [ 51 ]
          , and extend until at least 2 positions in a row are less
          than 40% conserved. To allow for mistakes in the
          alignment of all the sequences, essential residues are
          those >90% conserved by MASIA criteria over all
          sequences in the alignment.
        
        
          Genomic cross-networking with PSIBLAST
          A PSIBLAST search, using huAPE1 as the founder
          sequence, with an e-value of 0.1 per iteration, did not
          converge after 6 iterations, but few new sequences were
          added in the last 2 cycles. Searches with an e-value of
          0.01/iteration had similar results, but members of
          several families were not included until later cycles.
          Members of the DNase 1, LINE-1 repeats, inositol
          5'-polyphosphate phosphatase, Nocturnin, CCR4, cytolethal
          distending toxin, neutral sphingomyelin
          phosphodiesterase, and amino acid methyltransferase
          families were found with expectation values of 10 -4or
          less to be significantly similar to APE1. To determine
          the presence of motifs in these relatives, a CLUSTALW
          alignment of at least 5 representatives of a protein
          family was prepared and analyzed with MASIA for
          significant areas of conservation. In some cases,
          alignments taken from literature references (e.g., for
          IPPs [ 32 ] ) were used to confirm MASIA results. The
          motifs common to these families were compared with the
          APE motifs of Table 1. Criteria for inclusion (presence
          of motif) included conservation of residues >90%
          conserved (side chains shown in blue in the tables) and
          patterns of polarity (as determined with a macro included
          in the MASIA packet as a user specified feature).
        
        
          Molego building and comparison
          The drawings of "molego blocks" and structures
          (Figures 2, 3, 4and 7), contact plots of protein/DNA
          (Figures 5, 6), and calculation of the RMSD between
          similar segments (Table 2) were done with MOLMOL
          http://www.mol.biol.ethz.ch/wuthrich/software/molmol/ [
          52 ] . The RMSD values in Table 1were calculated using
          SwissPDB viewer and the "fit selected residues"
          option.
        
      
      
        Authors' contributions
        CHS developed the molego concept, performed the sequence
        analysis and prepared the manuscript. NO analyzed the
        structural properties of the molegos, and prepared figures
        2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. TI prepared mutants of human APE1 protein
        to test the conclusions of this paper, and he provided
        background and list of mutations affecting APE function. WB
        designed and developed the MASIA program and the modular
        analysis approach to enzyme functions.
        Additional File 1
        
        Sequence alignment and MASIA printout for
        the APE family The original alignment used for the APE
        family and the MASIA consensus macro output. Note that the 
        A. thaliana sequence is consistently
        an outlier in the file, due to the CLUSTAL-W misalignment
        of the nuclease area of the protein when the N-terminal
        sequence is not removed. The real position of the motifs in
        the 
        A. thaliana sequence are
        underlined.
        Click here for file
      
    
  
