
  
    
      
        Background
        Following a classic epithelial-mesenchymal interaction
        developmental program, the mouse neonatal submandibular
        salivary gland (SMG) is comprised of large and small ducts
        which terminate in lumen-containing, presumptive acini that
        express embryonic mucin [ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ] . Progressive
        prenatal morphogenesis begins as a solid outgrowth from the
        oral epithelium around E11.5, and is best conceptualized in
        stages [ 9 ] : 
        Initial Bud, Pseudoglandular,
        Canalicular, and 
        Terminal Bud. Epithelial cell
        proliferation is found in all stages, even after
        well-defined lumen formation in the 
        Terminal Bud Stage. Epithelial cell
        apoptosis begins with the onset of lumen formation in the 
        Canalicular Stage.
        The proper balance between SMG epithelial cell
        proliferation, quiescence, and apoptosis is mediated by the
        appearance of transcription factors, growth factors,
        cytokines, caspases, etc. at specific times and places [ 10
        11 12 13 14 ] . These SMG cellular and extracellular
        components may be visualized as a 
        Connections Map which details the
        functional relationships within and between pathways (Fig.
        1).
        Complex networks of biological signaling pathways (Fig.
        1) emerge from the interconnections of simple pathways
        under local control [ 15 16 17 ] . As such, these cellular
        pathways are more analogous to the mostly redundant,
        overlapping neural network of the brain than to traffic
        grids of intersecting streets and interacting vehicles.
        There are two general, not mutually exclusive, classes of
        interconnections: (1) junctions which serve as signal
        integrators and (2) nodes which split the signal and route
        them to multiple outputs [ 18 ] . Understanding the
        nonlinear dynamics of these interconnections is intrinsic
        to understanding the regulation of SMG morphogenesis. This
        requires the integration of transcriptomic, proteomic,
        phenomic, and bioinformatic approaches, not least because
        development, in its most basic sense, is genes plus context
        [ 19 20 21 22 ] .
        With the present experiments, we sought a glimpse of the
        extraordinarily complex behaviors of a focused signaling
        network (Fig. 1). To this end, we studied the molecular
        patterns and phenotypic outcomes of a nodal "short
        circuit", i.e., the inhibition of NF-κB activation and
        translocation to the nucleus to bind to NF-κB response
        genes. In most cell types, the NF-κB p50/p65 heterodimer is
        maintained as an inactive form in the cytoplasm bound to
        the inhibitory protein IκB. Exposure of cells to stimuli of
        NF-κB induces the rapid phosphorylation and subsequent
        degradation of IκB proteins. Released NF-κB dimers then
        translocate to the nucleus, bind to its cognate DNA
        elements, and induce the expression of target genes [ 23 24
        25 ] . Activated, nuclear translocated, NF-κB transcription
        factor has been documented in the mouse embryo from the
        1-cell stage onward [ 26 27 ] . Activated NF-κB
        translocation into the nucleus, directly or indirectly,
        effects the transcriptional control of over 150 target
        genes [ 28 ] . NF-κB enhances cell proliferation by
        stimulating the expression of cytokines such as TNF, IL-1,
        IL-2, IL-6, and IL-8, among others [ 28 29 ] ; NF-κB
        inhibits apoptosis by inducing TRAF and clAP expression
        which suppresses Caspase 8 activation [ 30 ] , and by
        inhibition of p53 transactivation [ 31 32 ] .
        We interrupted the NF-κB signal in embryonic SMG
        explants using the cell-permeable peptide SN50, a potent
        inhibitor of NF-κB nuclear translocation [ 25 26 ] , [ 33
        34 35 ] . SN50-mediated inhibition of NF-κB nuclear
        translocation in SMG explants results in extensive
        apoptosis and a very substantial decline in cell
        proliferation. Functional genomic analyses demonstrate that
        inhibition of NF-κB signaling is associated with the
        altered expression of numerous components of the genetic
        network of related signaling pathways. This modified
        expression of genes and proteins associated with the
        inhibition of the cell cycle and the induction of
        apoptosis, as well as the increased activation of
        proapoptotic and compensatory antiapoptotic pathways,
        provides a "snapshot" of the broad primary and secondary
        effects of NF-κB signaling during SMG development.
      
      
        Results and discussion
        
          NF-κB inhibition and SMG phenotype
          E15 SMG primordia were cultured for 2 days in the
          presence or absence of the cell-permeable peptide SN50, a
          potent inhibitor of NF-κB nuclear translocation [ 33 34
          35 ] . SN50 is composed of a nuclear localization
          sequence (NLS) for NF-κB p50 linked to a cell-permeable
          carrier [ 33 34 35 ] . SN50 blocks the intracellular
          recognition mechanism for the NLS on NF-κB, thus
          inhibiting NF-κB's translocation through the nuclear
          pore. After 2 days in culture, SN50-treated explants
          exhibit a substantial decrease in gland size and
          branching morphogenesis compared to controls (compare
          Fig. 3Ato 3B). These 2-day SN50-treated explants
          demonstrate a highly significant 81% decline (t 
          4 = 26.25; p < 0.001) in cell
          proliferation (Fig. 3A, B; Fig. 4A) and a significant
          10-fold increase (t 
          4 = 7.98; p < 0.001) in apoptosis
          (Fig. 3C, D; Fig. 4B). This substantial increase in
          apoptosis is associated with a highly significant >
          4-fold increase (t 
          4 = 22.66; p < 0.001) in 
          activated (phosphorylated) p53
          (Fig. 5). This result is not surprising, given that NF-κB
          inactivates p53 [ 32 ] .
          To demonstrate that this SN50 phenotype is consequent
          to SN50-mediated inhibition of NF-κB nuclear
          translocation and not the nonspecific effect of exogenous
          peptide, we compared E15 + 2 SMG phenotypes in explants
          cultured in control media, 100 μg/ml SN50 peptide, or 100
          μg/ml mutant SN50 (mSN50) peptide. As expected, we found
          a marked difference between control and SN50-treated SMGs
          but none between control and mutant peptide-treated
          explants (data not shown). In addition, since TNF/TNFR1
          signaling has been shown to induce embryonic SMG cell
          proliferation and inhibit apoptosis 
          in vitro [ 13 ] and TNF/TNFR1
          signal transduction primarily signals by induction of
          NF-κB nuclear translocation [ 36 ] , we postulated that
          TNF supplementation should have no inductive effect on
          SN50-treated SMGs. Thus, we cultured E15 control,
          SN50-treated, and mSN50-treated explants in the presence
          of TNF (rTNF, 10 U/ml) supplementation for 4 or more
          days. In this set of experiments, we extended the culture
          period to provide sufficient time to allow for possible
          TNF-mediated recovery. TNF supplementation induced NF-κB
          (p50 and p65) translocation (Fig. 6A), a marked increase
          in explant size, and a notable increase in cell
          proliferation (not shown); similar results were seen in
          TNF+ mSN50-treated explants (not shown). By contrast,
          NF-κB redistribution was not found in explants cultured
          in TNF + SN50 (Fig. 6B); rather, NF-κB was absent from
          epithelial cell nuclei and exhibited a very weak, diffuse
          cytoplasmic distribution. Moreover, TNF supplementation
          was unable to rescue the abnormal SN50 phenotype.
          Finally, the identical response of control and
          mSN50-treated SMG explants to TNF supplementation
          provides further evidence that this mutant peptide had no
          effect on NF-κB activation.
        
        
          Transcriptomic analysis
          To investigate transcriptional responses to NF-κB
          inhibition, we analyzed control and SN50-treated E15 + 2
          SMG explants using cDNA arrays. Of the 1176 transcripts
          assayed on these arrays (including transcription factors,
          cell cycle regulators, growth factors, etc.), 691 (~60%)
          demonstrated a 1.5-fold or greater increase or decrease
          in expression with SN50-induced NF-κB inhibition (Fig.
          7). Of these, we focused our attention on those signal
          transduction, cell cycle, and apoptosis transcripts
          related to the 
          Connections Map (Fig. 1). With
          inhibition of NF-κB translocation into the nucleus, 53 
          Connections Map transcripts exhibit
          altered expression (Table 1). We used Probabilistic
          Neural Network (PNN) analyses to determine which
          transcript changes best discriminate control from
          SN50-treated explants. These analyses identified those
          transcripts with significant changes which are relatively
          more important in defining the SMG phenotype, regardless
          of the direction (up or down) of change.
          Among the cell cycle transcripts with altered
          expression (Fig. 8A), PNN analysis shows that the 
          increased expression of cyclin D2,
          p57, and Cdc25a, as well as 
          decreased expression of PCNA, best
          discriminate control from SN50-treated explants. Cyclin
          D2, Cdc25a, and PCNA promote cell division; p57 inhibits
          cell division (Fig. 1). The significant decline in PCNA
          transcript (Table 1) is consistent with the highly
          significant (p < 0.001) decline in PCNA-defined cell
          proliferation (Fig. 4A).
          Among apoptosis transcripts with altered expression
          (Fig. 8B), PNN analysis demonstrates that downregulated
          Caspase 1 transcript, almost alone, best discriminates
          control from SN50-treated explants. Caspase 1 activates
          Caspase 3 and appears to promote production of the
          cytokine IL-1β, which upregulates the transcription of
          both Caspases 1 and 3, additionally potentiating
          apoptosis [ 37 38 ] . Thus, 
          this regulatory mechanism of
          caspase gene expression would likely be diminished in
          SN50-treated explants were they allowed to develop
          further in culture. Contemporaneous proteome analysis
          provides a very different profile (see Table 2and text
          below).
          Although many "Ras/Raf" growth factor pathway
          transcripts were upregulated (Table 1), as a group they
          were poor predictors of SMG phenotype (control v.
          SN50-treated). PNN analysis (Fig. 9A) shows that only
          IGF2, IGF2R, and IGFBP3 are best at discriminating
          control from SN50-treated explants.
          TGF-β1 and TGF-β2 show a 2-fold increase (Table 1)
          which is not unexpected given that TGF-β and NF-κB are
          found to be inversely proportional to one another [ 39 ]
          . Nevertheless, among the TGF-β family transcripts and
          others related to their expression and signal
          transduction (Fig. 9B), BMP1, BMP3b, BMP8a, Smad7, and GR
          best discriminate control from SN50-treated explants.
          BMPs inhibit cell proliferation via downstream Smad1/5/8
          proteins whereas Smad7 inhibits TGF-β and activin
          signaling (Fig. 1). This inhibition of TGF-β/activin
          signaling is modulated through NF-κB-dependent inhibition
          of Smad7 [ 40 ] . In addition, there is a negative
          feedback between NF-κB and Smad7; activated NF-κB
          inhibits Smad7 promotor activity [ 41 ] whereas Smad7
          inhibits NF-κB activation and potentiates apoptosis [ 42
          ] . Curiously, the 
          relative importance of increased
          Smad7 expression is 20 times greater than that of Smad1/5
          
          vis. defining the NF-κB-inhibited
          explants. It is likely that, in the absence of NF-κB's
          negative regulation, Smad7 signaling is upregulated,
          thereby sensitizing cells to apoptosis. Finally, the
          nearly 2-fold decrease in glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is
          also of high relative importance in defining the
          SN50-treated phenotype (Table 1). Glucocorticoids (CORT)
          function through the GR to both activate specific gene
          expression as well as transrepress NF-κB [ 41 ] . Since
          GR confers this latter effect by associating through
          protein-protein interactions with NF-κB bound at κB
          response elements [ 43 44 45 46 47 ] , it is important to
          also evaluate changes in GR protein levels (see
          below).
          Further, we utilized PNN analysis to determine the
          iterated composite relative importance among 
          Connections Map (Fig. 1)
          transcripts which have altered expression as a
          consequence of inhibition of NF-κB translocation into the
          nucleus (Fig. 10). That is, we then subjected those
          transcripts with altered expression in each group (cell
          cycle, apoptosis, Ras/Raf, TGF-β family) previously shown
          in Figures 7and 8 to be relatively important in defining
          the SN50 SMG phenotype to further PNN analysis. This
          transciptomic analysis is a time-bound "snapshot" in
          which gene expression is indicative of possible future
          protein expression. It is instructive that, of the 53 
          Connections Map transcripts with
          altered expression (Table 1), 4 genes of diverse pathways
          but overlapping function best discriminate control from
          SN50-treated explants: PCNA, GR, BMP1, BMP3b. The
          declining PCNA and GR reflect the sharp decline in cell
          proliferation and branching; the increasing BMP1 and
          BMP3b similarly reflects inhibition of cell proliferation
          (Fig. 1).
        
        
          Proteomic analysis
          Our cDNA array analysis provides a 
          good first approximation of 
          likely protein differences.
          However, one cannot extrapolate from mRNA abundance to
          relevant protein levels [ 48 ] . A recent study by
          Aebersole and coworkers [ 48 ] analyzing yeast protein
          and mRNA abundance clearly showed that mRNA transcript
          levels are 
          poor predictors of protein
          expression. They demonstrate that some genes with
          comparable mRNA levels exhibited a 20-fold difference in
          their protein expression while mRNA levels of comparable
          protein expression varied as much as 30-fold.
          Thus, we next analyzed SN50-treated and control E15 +
          2 SMG explants using 2-D Western Multiprotein Arrays to
          determine protein differences. This technique allows for
          the densitometric analysis of about 600 signal
          transduction and other proteins simultaneously in each
          independent sample (Fig. 11). As shown in Table 2, we
          find 18 proteins which have both a 1.5-fold or greater
          change with NF-κB inhibition 
          and are specifically related to the
          
          Connections Map (Fig. 1). They
          include signal transduction, cell cycle, and apoptosis
          proteins that are either directly or indirectly
          downstream from activation of the TNF, IL-6, EGF, IGF,
          and FGF signaling pathways. The significant decline in
          PCNA protein (Table 2) is consistent with the significant
          decline in PCNA transcript (Table 1) and PCNA-defined
          cell proliferation (Fig. 4A).
          PNN analysis shows that among cell cycle proteins with
          altered expression (Fig. 12A), the increased expression
          of Chk1, Chk2, and E2F1 best discriminates control from
          SN50-treated explants. Of particular interest is E2F1.
          Among the five known mammalian E2Fs, the ability to
          induce apoptosis is unique to E2F1 [ 49 ] .
          Overexpression of E2F1 in several cell lines results in G
          
          2 arrest, as well as apoptosis via
          p53-dependent and p53-independent pathways [ 50 51 52 ] .
          The presence of a dysplastic SMG phenotype in 
          E2f1 -/-mice indicates that E2F1
          plays an important role during SMG development [ 53 ] .
          Moreover, E2F1 overexpression in human salivary gland
          (HSG) cells diverted these cells into an apoptotic
          pathway [ 54 ] .
          Among apoptosis proteins with altered expression (Fig.
          12B), PNN analysis demonstrates that increased expression
          of FAF and Caspase 6 best discriminates control from
          SN50-treated explants. Caspase 6 is activated by active
          Caspase 3 and in turn cleaves lamin, resulting in nuclear
          membrane fragmentation [ 55 ] . FAF interacts with the
          cytoplasmic domain of the Fas receptor to potentiate
          Fas-mediated apoptosis [ 56 57 ] . Thus, the up-regulated
          cell cycle inhibitors and apoptotic proteins clearly
          favor cell cycle arrest and death.
          Among signal transduction proteins with altered
          expression (Fig. 12C), PNN analysis shows that members of
          all three growth factor pathways (Ras/Raf; JAK/STAT; JNK)
          have high relative importance in discriminating control
          from SN50-treated explants. Of particular note are c-Raf,
          ERK2, and JAK1. Raf plays a key role in the Ras signaling
          pathway (Fig. 1). That ERK2 is of very high relative
          importance is consistent with the observation that the
          MAPK/ERK overrides apoptotic signaling from Fas, TNF and
          TRAIL receptors [ 58 ] . It appears that effectors apart
          from the MAPK/ERK pathway may also mediate the
          anti-apoptotic function of c-Raf [55a]. Further, both the
          SHP-2/Ras and JAK/STAT3 pathways are activated by
          IL-6R/gp130 signaling (Fig. 1).
          Moreover, it is especially noteworthy that the nearly
          2-fold 
          decline of glucocorticoid receptor
          (GR) (Table 2) is also of very high relative importance
          in defining SMGs deprived of NF-κB nuclear translocation.
          As noted above, CORT/GR binding both activates specific
          gene expression and transrepresses NF-κB [ 47 ] . To
          repress NF-κB, the GR associates through protein-protein
          interactions with NF-κB bound at κB response elements [
          44 45 46 47 ] . The precise relationship between
          decreased NF-κB-mediated transcription and a decreased GR
          protein expression is unclear.
          Nevertheless, CORT/GR function is important to
          embryonic SMG morphogenesis [ 60 ] . Radioimmunoassays
          first detect SMG CORT in amounts >2 pg/gland on E15;
          Western analysis first detects SMG GR on E14 (0.14
          fmol/gland). By E18, SMG CORT has increased more than
          50-fold, and SMG GR has increased nearly 11-fold. The SMG
          GR is functional, as defined by its ability to bind a DNA
          response element (GRE). Increasing CORT/GR function 
          in vivo is associated with a
          significant decline in TGF-β expression and a significant
          increase in cell division. SMG primordia cultured under
          serumless, chemically defined conditions, and deprived of
          CORT, exhibit a dramatic decline of SMG branching
          morphogenesis. It is reasonable, then, to assume that the
          high relative importance of diminished GR protein
          expression to the phenotype of SN50-treated SMGs is
          directly related to the significant (p < 0.001)
          decline in cell proliferation and branching (Fig. 3A, B;
          Fig. 4A).
          The iterated composite relative importance of all 
          Connections Map proteins with
          altered expression as a consequence of NF-κB inhibition
          was then determined (Fig. 13). This proteomic analysis is
          a time-based "snapshot" of proteins assumed to be
          associated with physiologic function at the moment of SMG
          harvesting. Viewing the most defining proteins with
          altered expression, it is clearly reflective of increased
          apoptosis (increased Chk1, Caspase 6, E2F1), decreased
          cell proliferation and branching (decreased GR), and,
          interestingly, increased expression of diverse signal
          transduction pathways (Ras/Raf/ERK, JNK) to compensate
          for the proapoptotic signal.
        
        
          Analysis of activated pathway components
          We then focused our attention on two particularly
          important pathways relative to cell proliferation and
          apoptosis, ERK 1/2 and Caspase 3. Downstream of 
          activated ERK 1/2 is an
          upregulation of cell proliferation proteins and
          potentially enhanced cell division, as well as a
          protective effect over apoptotic signaling via suppressed
          activation of caspase effectors. Downstream of 
          activated Caspase 3 are the
          sequellae of apoptosis, including PARP cleavage and
          inhibition of DNA repair, DNA fragmentation, and nuclear
          membrane fragmentation. The increase or decrease in
          expression of the components of any signaling pathway is
          not necessarily probative of pathway activity. Rather, it
          is the change in the level of activated protein that is 
          physiologically important. Thus, we
          determined if SN50 treatment was associated with
          activation of the ERK1/2 and Caspase 3 pathways, using
          E15 + 2 control and SN50-treated explants, 1-D Western
          blot analysis, and antibodies specific to 
          activated (phosphorylated/cleaved)
          proteins. Specifically, we evaluated the levels of
          activated c-Raf, ERK1/2, Caspase 3, and PARP using
          antibodies which identify only the phosphorylated or
          cleaved proteins and do not cross react with the inactive
          protein. We found a significant increase (p < 0.05) in
          
          activated ERK1/2, Caspase 3, and
          PARP in SN50-treated explants (Fig. 14); no change was
          seen in 
          activated c-Raf levels between
          control and SN50-treated explants. The greater than
          2-fold increase in Caspase 3 activation is associated
          with a 1.8-fold increase in PARP cleavage (Fig. 14) and a
          10-fold increase in apoptosis (Fig. 4B). Since Caspase 3
          is nodal to E2F1 (via p53), FAF (via Fas/Caspase 8), and
          Caspase 6 [ 33 36 37 39 ] , our observation of increased 
          activated Caspase 3 is consistent
          with the increased levels of E2F1, FAF, and Caspase 6
          proteins (Table 2). Regarding the ERK1/2 pathway, we
          found a greater than 2-fold increase of activated ERK2 in
          SN50-treated glands (Fig. 13) associated with a 1.5-fold
          increase in total ERK2 protein (Table 2). This increased
          activity of proapoptotic (caspase3/PARP) and compensatory
          antiapoptotic (ERK1/2) pathways is consistent with the
          dramatic cell death seen in SN50-treated SMGs.
          Paradoxically, increased ERK1 activation is seen despite
          a 1.6-fold decrease in total ERK1 protein (Table 2) and
          increased ERK 1/2 activation is associated with virtually
          no change in the antecedent activation of c-Raf. The
          latter is consistent with the demonstration that c-Raf
          function is not mediated by the MAPK/ERK cascade [ 59 ] .
          Moreover, although we find an increase in total Raf
          protein (Table 2), no increase in activated c-Raf is
          found; we also see a 2-fold increase in activated Caspase
          3 but no change in total Caspase 3 protein. These results
          clearly illustrate that changes in 
          total protein level are not always
          indicative of altered protein 
          activity. 
          Finally, it should be noted that a recent study using
          cell lines raised the possibility that SN50's action is
          not specific to NF-κB [ 61 62 ] . SN50 is composed of the
          NLS for NF-κB p50 and was believed to specifically block
          NF-κB p50/p65 nuclear translocation by binding the NLS
          receptor complex and preventing transport through the
          nuclear pore [ 33 34 35 ] . However, Torgerson and
          coworkers [ 61 ] have shown that SN50 treatment inhibited
          nuclear transport of transcription factors NFAT, AP-1,
          STAT1, and NF-κB at a high dose of 210 μg/ml in Junkrat
          cells. However, others have shown that lower doses ≤ 100
          μg/ml of SN50 specifically inhibited NF-κB nuclear
          translocation in human peripheral blood lymphocytes and
          murine T cells [ 33 63 ] . These reported differences are
          likely due to dose-dependent or cell-specific differences
          in the effect of SN50 [ 64 ] . Given that: (1) embryonic
          SMGs were cultured in the presence of 100 μg/ml SN50, (2)
          immunodetectable NF-κB was absent from SMG epithelia
          nuclei in TNF + SN50-treated explants, and (3) one cannot
          extrapolate observations in Jurkat cells to those in
          primary cells [ 64 ] or organ cultures, it is most
          probable that our observed interruption of SMG
          development is proximately due exclusively to the
          inhibition of NF-κB nuclear translocation. Indeed, for
          low doses of SN50, there is no evidence in the literature
          to the contrary. Nonetheless, we do recognize that
          absence of evidence is not necessarily evidence of
          absence.
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        Our results indicate that NF-κB-mediated transcription
        is directly or indirectly critical to embryonic SMG
        developmental homeostasis. We demonstrate the interplay
        between gene expression, protein expression, protein
        activity, and morphology in response to NF-κB inhibition.
        Gene/protein differences between control and
        NF-κB-inhibited phenotypes are not linearly causal of SMG
        dysplasia. In fact, these differences are discovered
        correlations between network components and an emerging SMG
        phenotype, a glimpse of nonlinear organogenesis [ 65 ]
        .
        Considering the outcome of this study relative to the 
        Connections Map (Fig. 1), it is
        apparent that NF-κB nuclear translocation is functionally
        integral to a genetic network with broadly related, rather
        than independent, components. It may be said to represent
        the collective dynamics of a "small-world" network such
        that the average number of factors in the shortest chain
        connecting any two factors is small [ 66 ] . Such dynamical
        systems with small-world coupling display enhanced
        signal-propagation speed and synchronizability. Thus, if
        one focuses on the superimposition of the various layers of
        information, namely morphology, gene expression, protein
        expression, and protein activity (Figs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
        9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14), one can visualize a coordinated,
        multidimensional response to inhibited NF-κB nuclear
        translocation. This visualization, however, is necessarily
        impressionistic even though our assays have some precision.
        This is so because we cannot extrapolate from transcriptome
        to proteome to activated proteins with any accuracy (in the
        absence of actual steady-state measures), 
        and because in these experiments time
        is necessarily cross-sectional, not longitudinal.
        Nevertheless, relative to understanding a complex genetic
        network and organogenesis, our results demonstrate the
        importance of contemporaneously evaluating the gene,
        protein, 
        and activated protein expression of
        multiple components from multiple pathways within broad
        functional categories. Understanding the signal dynamics of
        these pathways will require expanded models that encompass
        more aspects of regulation [e.g. [ 67 ] ]. Still, we will
        always be limited by the fact that phenotypes are complex,
        emergent phenomena [ 16 ] .
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Tissue collection
          Female B10A/SnSg mice, obtained from Jackson
          Laboratories (Bar Harbor, ME), were maintained and mated
          as previously described [ 60 ] ; plug day = day 0 of
          gestation. Pregnant females were anesthetized on days
          15-19 of gestation (E15-18) with methoxyflurane
          (metafane) and euthanized by cervical dislocation.
          Embryos were dissected in cold phosphate buffered saline
          (PBS) and staged according to Theiler [ 68 ] . SMGs were
          dissected and cultured, processed for histology, or
          stored at -70°C. For cDNA expression and proteomic
          studies, E15 + 2 explants were collected, pooled, and
          stored at -70°C.
        
        
          Culture system
          E15 SMG (mostly 
          Canalicular Stage) primordia were
          cultured using a modified Trowell method as previously
          described [ 13 ] . The medium consisted of BGJb (Life
          Technologies, Rockville, MD) supplemented with 0.5 mg
          ascorbic acid/ml and 50 units penicillin/streptomycin
          (Life Technologies), pH 7.2, and replicate cultures were
          changed every other day. Cultures were supplemented on
          day 0 and maintained for the duration of the experiments.
          In each of the enumerated studies, a minimum of 12
          explants were cultured for 2 or 4 days in the cell
          permeable peptide SN50 (Biomol Research, Plymouth
          Meeting, PA) which inhibits NF-κB translocation into the
          nucleus [ 24 33 34 35 ] . The concentration used (100
          μg/ml) was double that shown to inhibit NF-κB
          translocation in mouse endothelial LE-II cells; 100 μg/ml
          mutant SN50 (mSN50) peptide was used as a 
          positive control and control BGJb
          medium as a 
          negative control. We evaluated
          their microanatomy by routine hematoxylin and eosin
          histology. We report a marked difference between
          SN50-treated and control explants or SN50-and mSN50
          peptide-treated explants. No differences were observed
          between control and mSN50-treated explants. Since these
          initial studies demonstrated no difference between
          explants cultured in control media alone and in mutant
          peptide, control media was used as the control in all
          subsequent experiments. Ten independent experiments of
          E15 primordia were cultured for 2 days (E15 + 2) in CONT
          (control) or SN50-supplemented media, each group
          consisting of a minimum of 8 explants per group. E15+2
          explants were collected and processed as described
          below.
          To further demonstrate that SN50 treatment inhibited
          NB-κB activation, we evaluated if TNF supplementation
          would induce NF-κB translocation and SMG morphogenesis.
          E15 SMGs were cultured for 4 days or longer in 10 U/ml
          recombinant mouse TNF (rTNF, R & D, Minneapolis, MN),
          100 μg/ml SN50 + 10 U/ml rTNF, or 100 μg/ml mSN50 + 10
          U/ml rTNF, 6-10 explants per treatment group. This rTNF
          concentration was previously shown in our laboratory to
          induce embryonic SMG morphogenesis and cell proliferation
          [ 13 ] . Explants were collected and evaluated by
          histological and immunochemical analyses as described
          below.
        
        
          Histology and immunolocalization
          SMGs were fixed in Carnoy's fixative, processed,
          embedded in low-melting point paraplast, and stored for
          brief periods at 4°C as previously described [ 13 ] .
          Cultured explant morphogenesis was analyzed by dissecting
          microscopy and by light microscopy of serial sections
          stained with hematoxylin and eosin. A minimum of 5
          explants per group was evaluated for all experimental
          groups. For immunochemistry, the tissues were sectioned
          at 7 μm, placed on cleaned, gelatin-coated slides at 37°C
          for 3 hr, and immediately immunostained as previously
          described [ 9 13 ] . The sections were incubated in
          polyclonal goat anti-NF-κB p65/RelA antibody (C-20)(Santa
          Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA); this antibody has
          been shown to cross-react with mouse p65; it is not
          cross-reactive with RelB p68 or c-Rel p75. We confirmed
          the spatial distribution of NF-κB using a polyclonal goat
          anti-NF-κB p50 antibody (C-19) (Santa Cruz
          Biotechnology); this antibody has been shown to react
          with mouse p50 or p105; it is not cross-reactive with
          NF-κB p52, p65/RelA or p100. Controls consisted of
          sections incubated with preimmune serum or in the absence
          of primary antibody; controls were routinely negative.
          The spatial distribution of NF-κB p65 was identical to
          that of NF-κB p50. Therefore, we only show the results of
          the anti-NF-κB p65 antibody experiments.
        
        
          Quantitation of activated p53
          To quantitate differences in 
          activated (phosphorylated) p53
          protein, 3 SN50 and control E15 + 2 explants were
          sectioned, preincubated with unlabeled goat-anti mouse
          IgG as previously described [ 9 ] and sequentially
          incubated with a monoclonal anti-phosphorylated p53
          (Ser15) antibody (Cell Signaling Technology, Beverly,
          MA), biotin-labeled goat anti-mouse IgG, and HRP-labeled
          SA (Zymed Laboratories, South San Francisco, CA), and
          counterstained with hematoxylin. Controls consisted of
          preimmune serum or PBS alone. In this set of experiments,
          the cytoplasm appears blue and 
          activated p53-positive cells appear
          dark brown. Three sections per group were selected and 3
          areas per section was photographed at 200×. p53-positive
          epithelial cells/total epithelial cells were determined
          per area and the mean ratios per section and per group
          were determined. Statistical comparisons were made
          between CONT and SN50-treated E15 + 2 explants as
          described below.
        
        
          Cell proliferation assay
          E15 + 2 CONT or SN50-treated explants were sectioned,
          incubated with anti-PCNA using the Zymed mouse PCNA kit
          (South San Francisco, CA), and counterstained with
          hematoxylin as previously described [ 13 ] . In this set
          of experiments, the cytoplasm appears blue and
          PCNA-positive cells appear dark brown. Quantitation of
          cell proliferation was conducted as described above for
          p53. Cell proliferation is presented as the ratio of
          PCNA-positive epithelial cells/total epithelial cells.
          Mean ratios per section and mean ratios per group were
          determined. Statistical comparisons were made between
          CONT and SN50-treated E15 + 2 explants as described
          below.
        
        
          Apoptosis assay
          Apoptotic cells were detected using a monoclonal
          antibody to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) (Mab F7-26)
          according to the method of Apostain, Inc. (Miami, FL) [
          13 ] . Selective binding of anti-ssDNA monoclonal
          antibody F7-26 to 
          apoptotic nuclei reflects decreased
          stability of DNA to thermal denaturation. Four positive
          and negative controls were conducted. 
          Negative controls: (1) Tissue
          sections were heated and treated with S1 nuclease
          (Sigma); S1 nuclease eliminates staining of apoptotic
          cells, thus demonstrating that Mab F7-26 binds
          specifically to ssDNA. (2) Sections were pretreated in
          PBS containing lysine-rich histone (Sigma) prior to
          heating and immunostaining; reconstitution with histone
          restores DNA stability in apoptotic nuclei, thus
          preventing DNA denaturation and eliminating Mab staining
          of apoptotic cells. 
          Positive controls: (1) Sections
          were heated in water and treated with Mab; bright
          staining of all non-apoptotic nuclei with low apoptotic
          indexes demonstrates that the procedure is adequate to
          detect ssDNA. (2) Sections were pretreated with
          proteinase K before heating; intensive staining of
          non-apoptotic nuclei demonstrates that the procedure
          detects decreased DNA stability induced by the digestion
          of nuclear proteins. Mab F7-26 was purchased from
          Apostain, Inc.
          Apoptotic nuclei appear as dark brown. Since the
          sections were not counterstained with hematoxylin in this
          set of experiments, epithelial cell cytoplasm appears as
          light brown. Only apoptotic (variously intense dark
          brown) nuclei were counted in control and SN50-treated
          sections. Apoptosis was evaluated in a minimum of 4
          explants per experimental group. Quantitation of
          apoptotic nuclei was conducted as described above for
          p53. Apoptosis is presented as the ratio of
          apoptotic-positive epithelial cell nuclei/total
          epithelial cell nuclei. Mean ratios per section and mean
          ratios per group were determined. Statistical comparisons
          were made between CONT and SN50-treated E15 + 2 explants
          as described below.
        
        
          cDNA expression arrays
          For cDNA Expression Array analysis, E15 SMG primordia
          were cultured in the presence or absence of SN50 peptide
          for 2 days (E15 + 2), collected in cold PBS containing
          0.02% DEPC, snap frozen, and stored at -70°C. Clontech
          (Clontech Laboratories, Inc., Palo Alto, CA) Mouse 1.2
          cDNA Expression Arrays were used to analyze each sample.
          These arrays include 1176 mouse cDNAs, 9 housekeeping
          control cDNAs, and negative controls immobilized on a
          nylon membrane www.clontech.com. Briefly, total RNA was
          isolated and cDNA probes were synthesized using the Atlas
          Pure Total RNA Labeling System and 32P. The labeled cDNA
          probes were hybridized to the Atlas Array using
          ExpressHyb Solution. Hybridization signals were revealed
          by phosphorimaging and quantitated using the Clontech
          Atlas Image 1.01 software package, which allows for
          unbiased normalization of transcript abundance to overall
          signal. We generated pseudocolored images indicating up
          and down gene regulation. The probe set intensity
          (average difference) is proportional to the abundance of
          the specific mRNA it represents and was calculated by
          comparing hybridization signal of the control
          oligonucleotide to that of the treated. Total signal
          intensity of different probes was scaled to the same
          value before comparison. Fold changes were calculated by
          AtlasImage 1.0 software by pair-wise comparisons of
          corresponding probe pairs from experimental and control.
          Three independent experiments were conducted per
          experimental group and the composite array determined.
          Relevant genes with altered expression were then assigned
          to functional groups. Specifically, we assigned those
          genes related to the 
          Connections Map (Fig. 1) that have
          a 1.5 or greater fold-change to functional groups ( 
          i.e., cell cycle, apoptosis, signal
          transduction, etc.) which have biological
          significance.
        
        
          2-D western array screening
          The expression of signaling proteins was analyzed by
          Powerblot Western Array Screening (BD Transduction
          Laboratories, Lexington, KY). This 2-D Western Blot Array
          methodology simultaneously examines relative changes in
          protein expression in ~600 proteins in a given sample.
          Using highly specific monoclonal antibodies in antibody
          combinations carefully formulated by BD Transduction
          Laboratories, this multiprotein assay detects proteins to
          the nanogram levels and can distinguish closely related
          members of many important signaling families. E15+2 CONT
          and SN50-treated explants were collected and processed
          according to the protocol of BD Transduction
          Laboratories. Each sample (CONT and SN50-treated) was
          analyzed on 4 separate 2-D gels which were then
          transferred onto 4 blots. Each blot was then incubated
          with a different mixture of ~150 monoclonal antibodies
          and proteins were detected by chemiluminescence; ~600
          (150 antibodies × 4 blots) proteins were evaluated in a
          given sample. For this set of experiments, two
          independent samples were analyzed The relative level of
          proteins were determined by phosphor imaging and
          normalized to overall signal. We then assigned those 
          Connections Map proteins with a 1.5
          or greater fold-change to functional groups as described
          above.
        
        
          1-D western blot analysis
          To determine which key pathways were activated,
          Western blot analyses of phosphorylated or cleaved
          proteins in E15+2 CONT and SN50-treated explants were
          conducted as previously described [ 5 ] . For this set of
          experiments, we first determined the specificity for each
          of the following antibodies purchased from Cell Signaling
          Technology (Beverly, MA) using E15 and E17 SMG
          homogenates: anti-phosphorylated Erk1/2 [phospho-p44/42
          MAP kinase (Thr202/Tyr204)] antibody, anti-phosphorylated
          c-Raf(Ser259) antibody, anti-cleaved Caspase 3 (D 175)
          antibody, and anti-cleaved PARP (D214) antibody. Each
          antibody had previously been shown to be specific for the
          activated (phosphorylated/cleaved) protein and not to
          cross react with inactive protein. Once optimal
          experimental conditions were established for each
          antibody, we then incubated blots of E15 and E17 SMGs in
          a mixture of these 4 antibodies and determined that we
          could identify all proteins in a single sample by M 
          r . This methodology using a mixture
          of antibodies has been successfully used by Cell
          Signaling Technology and BD Signal Transduction for 2-D
          and 1-D Western blot analyses. Controls consisted of
          blots incubated in preimmune rabbit serum or in the
          absence of primary antibodies; controls were routinely
          negative. In each sample, each 
          activated protein was identified by
          M 
          r and the relative level of 
          activated proteins in CONT and
          SN50-treated explants was determined by densitometry. The
          SN50 results are presented as fold change relative to
          CONT protein. Two independent samples per group was
          analyzed. Statistical comparisons were made between CONT
          and SN50-treated E15 + 2 explants as described below.
        
        
          Probabilistic neural network analysis
          We used PNN analyses to determine which 
          Connection Map (Fig. 1) transcripts
          or proteins with altered expression best discriminate
          CONT from SN50-treated explants with 100% sensitivity and
          specificity [ 69 ] . PNN analyses identify the relative
          importance (0-1, with 0 being of no relative importance
          and 1 being relatively most important) of gene and
          protein expression changes in defining the SN50
          phenotype. It is the change in expression, not the
          direction of change, that is important in defining the
          phenotype. The algorithm we used (Ward Systems Group,
          Frederick, MD) is based upon the work of Specht and
          colleagues [ 69 70 71 72 ] . Utilizing proprietary
          software designed by Ward Systems Group (Frederick, MD),
          we made comparisons among 
          Connections Map transcripts or
          proteins with altered expression in a given group.
        
        
          Statistical analysis
          Means differences were analyzed by t-test in the usual
          manner [ 73 ] . To meet the assumptions of this analysis,
          namely normality and homoscedasticity (homogeneity of
          variances), counts, ratios, and percentages were log or
          arcsin transformed [ 74 ] . This allows for parametric
          statistical testing.
        
      
    
  
