
  
    
      
        Background
        Cell migration is one of the most important and complex
        cellular behaviors. It is essential for animal development,
        immune system function, and wound repair. Defects in cell
        migration can lead to human diseases such as birth defects,
        and failure to control cell migration is an important step
        in tumor metastasis.
        We currently believe that migrating cells extend and
        retract actin rich protrusions, lamellipodia and filopodia,
        into their environment. Protrusions that adhere strongly
        enough are stabilized and fail to retract. In this way,
        cells (or cell processes) can follow adhesive guidance
        cues. While this model has been around for some time [ 1],
        we are only now beginning to understand the molecular
        signals that cause cells to initiate movement, how cells
        move, the signals that guide the cell migrations, and the
        signals that stop cells at their appropriate positions.
        Recently, progress in understanding cell migration has
        come from studies of 
        Caenorhabditis elegans and 
        Drosophila [ 2]. Most cell migration
        genes identified in these simple invertebrates are
        conserved in vertebrates, which confirms the efficacy of
        these genetically tractable systems for studying cell
        migration.
        
        C. elegans is a particularly
        attractive system for the study of cell migration. These
        animals are transparent and anatomically simple, so cell
        migrations can be followed in the living animal at all
        stages of development by fluorescence microscopy of GFP
        fusion proteins or by Nomarski microscopy. Both the cell
        lineage and the cell migrations are invariant from animal
        to animal, so migration defects can be easily
        identified.
        Several genetic screens performed with 
        C. elegans have identified mutations
        that interfere with cell migrations (for reviews see [ 2,
        3]). Some of these mutations affect all cell migrations,
        whereas others only affect the migrations of a limited
        subset of cells. Not surprisingly, many of these mutants
        also show defects in axon extension, bundling and
        pathfinding. The genes identified by these mutations encode
        extracellular proteins, cell surface receptors, fibroblast
        growth factor-like proteins and their receptors, adhesion
        molecules, small GTPases, non-muscle myosins and
        transcription factors.
        In 
        C. elegans , three genes, 
        unc -6, 
        unc -5 and 
        unc -40, guide cells and processes
        along the dorsal-ventral axis [ 4]. All of these genes are
        conserved across broad groups of animals from 
        C. elegans to man. UNC-6 protein, a
        laminin-like protein that is located in the ventral region
        of the animal, is a homolog of the vertebrate protein
        netrin. UNC-5 and UNC-40 are cell surface receptors that
        interact with UNC-6. UNC-5 promotes dorsal migrations,
        whereas UNC-40 promotes ventral migrations, both in
        response to UNC-6 signals. Based on studies in other
        species, the difference in how UNC-5 and UNC-40 guide cells
        and axons lies in their intracellular domains [ 5, 6].
        Mutations in 
        unc-129 , a member of the
        transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) superfamily, were
        identified as genetic suppressors of ectopic UNC-6
        signaling [ 7]. 
        unc-129 is expressed dorsally and
        loss of UNC-129 function disrupts dorsal axon migrations.
        In 
        Drosophila , TGFβ family members are
        also involved in controlling dorsal-ventral migrations [
        8]. It appears, therefore, that the UNC-6/netrin and TGFβ
        guidance systems act redundantly and are conserved across
        species.
        The guidance of cells and axons along the
        anterior-posterior axis of 
        C. elegans is not as well understood.
        Two genes involved in anterior-posterior cell migration are
        
        vab- 8 and 
        mig-13 . VAB-8 is a kinesin-related
        protein that acts cell autonomously and is involved in
        posterior cell migrations [ 9, 10]. Therefore, VAB-8 is
        probably involved in the cellular response to guidance
        cues. MIG-13 is a novel transmembrane protein that acts
        non-cell autonomously and is involved in anterior cell
        migrations [ 11, 12]. The dose of MIG-13 appears to affect
        the extent of anterior cell migrations [ 12]. MIG-13 may,
        therefore, signal to cells their direction and extent of
        migration.
        Chalfie and colleagues have identified a transcriptional
        cascade that leads to the activation of touch
        neuron-specific genes. UNC-86 is a POU homeodomain
        transcription factor needed to activate the 
        mec-3 gene [ 13, 14, 15]. 
        mec-3 in turn encodes a LIM
        homeodomain protein that is expressed in the six touch
        receptor neurons, two FLP neurons and two PVD neurons.
        MEC-3 and UNC-86 proteins form a heterodimer that binds to
        and activates the 
        mec-3 promoter and the promoters of
        touch receptor-specific genes such as 
        mec-7 and 
        mec-4 [ 13, 14, 15]. In this way,
        MEC-3 activates its own transcription, which probably
        prevents the dedifferentiation of the touch neurons. Later
        in development, 
        mec-17 also contributes to the
        maintenance of 
        mec-3 expression [ 16].
        We show here that a sequence upstream of 
        mec-3 , when transformed into 
        C. elegans in high copy arrays,
        altered the extent and direction of ALM touch receptor
        neuron migrations. This sequence also disrupted extension
        of the PLM touch receptor axon. These defects did not
        result from RNA interference (RNAi), the heavy genetic load
        of carrying a transgenic array, the expression of GFP, or
        the 
        rol-6 marker gene used to make the
        transgenic arrays. The ALM migration defects were due to a
        specific DNA sequence and only occurred when there were
        many copies of that sequence in the array. This sequence
        did not affect all cell migrations, the ALM/BDU cell
        division or the positions of the BDU cells. We conclude,
        therefore, that the sequence is sequestering a factor that
        helps control ALM migrations and PLM axon outgrowth. We
        also suggest that this factor may be differentially
        segregated into touch receptor neurons and that it may help
        specify the touch receptor neuron cell fate.
      
      
        Results
        
          ALM migration and PLM axonal morphology
          defects
          Figure 2shows fluorescence micrographs and bar graphs
          of the positions of the ALMs from strain TU2562, which
          has an integrated 
          mec-3gfp (equivalent to pJC8 in
          Figure 4), and strain EA485, which contains a high copy
          extrachromosomal array made from plasmid pJC4 (see Figure
          4and Materials and Methods). In strain TU2562, the ALMs
          migrated close to their normal positions; the average
          position was 8.6 (n=190) on the scale described above. In
          EA485, the ALMs were usually anterior to their normal
          positions; the average position was 4.2 (n=175) on this
          scale.
          Strains that showed the ALM migration defects also
          showed defects in another pair of touch neurons, the
          PLMs. Figure 3shows an example of a normal PLM in strain
          TU2562 and several examples of PLMs with axonal defects
          in strain EA485. All of the 189 PLMs scored in TU2562 had
          normal morphology, whereas 64% of the 183 PLMs scored in
          EA485 had defects in axonal morphology. In EA485, the PLM
          axons were often short, misdirected and had extra
          branches.
          Axonal defects in the ALMs were less common than in
          the PLMs. In EA485, 77.4% of 199 ALMs scored had normal
          axonal morphology, whereas in TU2562, all of the 117 ALMs
          scored had normal morphology. The majority of ALMs with
          abnormal axonal morphology were in positions 1-3 with a
          few as posterior as position 5. All ALMs located
          posterior to position 5 had normal axonal morphology.
        
        
          The ALM migration defect was due to a specific DNA
          sequence
          To determine whether the ALM migration defect was due
          to the presence of a specific DNA sequence in the
          extrachromosomal arrays, we generated 
          mec-3gfp deletion constructs
          containing various portions of the 
          mec-3 upstream sequences. Plasmids
          pJC8, pJC3, pJC4, pJC1, pJC18 and pJC19 were made as
          described in Materials and Methods and plasmid pPD118.17
          was a gift from A. Fire. We transformed these plasmids
          into wild type animals as described in Materials and
          Methods and screened for transgenic lines. All of the
          resulting strains expressed 
          mec-3gfp in the ten cells where 
          mec-3 is normally expressed. We
          measured the ALM positions in 100 animals from each
          strain.
          Figure 4shows the region of 
          mec-3gfp included in each of the
          plasmids, the combined distribution of ALM positions from
          three strains transformed with each construct, the
          percent of ALMs that showed migration defects (those
          located anterior to position 8) and the total number of
          ALMs scored. Strains transformed with pJC8, pJC3, and
          pJC4 showed strong ALM migration defects but strains
          transformed with plasmids pPD118.17 and pJC1 showed few
          ALM migration defects. The region from 
          Pst I to 
          Bbs I appeared to suppress the
          migration defect (compare pJC3 to pJC4). The 495 bp
          region from the 5' end of the 
          mec-3 clone to the 
          Pst I site appeared to most
          strongly affect ALM migrations (compare pJC3 and pJC4 to
          pPD118.17 and pJC1). Further deletions of this region
          (pJC18 and pJC19) resulted in less severe migration
          defects. These data and results described below are
          consistent with the hypothesis that this sequence
          contains multiple binding sites that titrate out a cell
          migration factor or factors. Below we refer to this
          sequence as the titrating sequence.
        
        
          The migration defect was not due to nonspecific
          effects of carrying an array, expression of GFP, or the
          rol-6 transformation marker gene
          The above data also show that the ALM migration and
          PLM axonal morphology defects are not due to nonspecific
          effects of carrying an extrachromosomal array. Some
          arrays such as those made with plasmids pPD118.17 and
          pJC1 had little effect on ALM migration and PLM axonal
          morphology.
          There have been reports that expression of GFP in
          neurons can have toxic effects [ 20, 21]. The above
          results, however, show that neither the migration defects
          nor the PLM axonal morphology defects resulted from
          expression of GFP. Some arrays, such as the integrated
          array in strain TU2562 and the extrachromosomal arrays
          containing plasmids pPD118.17 and pJC1, express GFP yet
          had few ALM migration or PLM axonal morphology defects.
          The lines transformed with pJC1 had especially bright GFP
          fluorescence yet had few ALM or PLM defects.
          All of the lines shown in Figure 4were made by
          co-injection of the plasmid of interest and the plasmid
          pRF4, which contains the 
          rol-6(su1006) marker gene. Because
          some of these arrays, and others described below, did not
          induce ALM migration or PLM axonal defects, these
          phenotypes were not due to the 
          rol-6 marker plasmid.
        
        
          The ALM migration defect was not due to RNAi
          In 
          C. elegans , the presence of double
          stranded RNA that corresponds in sequence to a gene will
          usually result in silencing of that gene [ 22]. This
          effect is referred to as RNA interference or RNAi. In
          several cases where transgenic arrays induced odd
          phenotypes, the authors attribute this to RNAi effects
          resulting from cryptic promoters on either side of the
          transformed gene [ 23]. In the case described here, it
          seemed unlikely that RNAi was inducing the ALM migration
          or the PLM axonal morphology defects because there is no
          predicted protein-encoding gene in the titrating
          sequence. It was conceivable, however, that a small,
          undetected gene was present in this sequence. To test
          this possibility, we generated double stranded RNA that
          corresponded to the sequence 5' of the 
          Pst I restriction site and injected
          it into TU2562 animals. TU2562 was chosen because it
          expresses GFP in its ALMs and these neurons migrate
          normally.
          In strain TU2562 the average ALM position was 8.6. In
          two separate experiments, TU2562 injected with double
          stranded RNA containing the 
          mec-3 sequence 5' of the 
          Pst I restriction site also had
          average ALM positions of 8.6 (n=190 and n=167). These RNA
          injected animals also had normal PLM axonal morphology.
          Therefore, the ALM migration and the PLM axonal
          morphology defects were not due to RNAi.
        
        
          Many copies of the titrating sequence were required
          to induce the ALM migration defect
          To determine whether the migration defect resulted
          from having many copies of the titrating sequence, we
          made transformants with different mixtures of plasmid and
          genomic DNA. Kelly et al. [ 24] have shown that blunt end
          cut plasmids injected with blunt end cut genomic DNA will
          form complex arrays that contain genomic DNA intermixed
          with a few copies of the plasmid. To generate arrays with
          different numbers of copies of pJC4, we co-injected pJC4
          plasmid DNA with pRF4 and genomic DNA as described in
          Materials and Methods. We measured the positions of the
          ALMs in 100 animals from one transgenic strain made with
          each DNA mixture.
          Figure 5shows a plot of the average ALM position
          versus the concentration of pJC4 in the injection
          mixture. The ALMs were close to their normal positions in
          the strains made with 2, 4, 8, 16 and 32 μg/ml of pJC4
          but showed a clear migration defect at 64 and 128 μg/ml
          of pJC4.
        
        
          Having a promoter near the titrating sequence did
          not enhance the ALM migration defect
          All of the plasmids shown in Figure 4contained both
          the 
          mec-3 promoter and the GFP encoding
          sequence. We reasoned that pJC4 may have caused more
          severe migration defects than pJC8 and pJC3 because in
          pJC4 the titrating sequence was closer to the promoter
          and was thereby more accessible to binding factors. To
          determine whether having a promoter present increased the
          effectiveness of this sequence, we made two plasmids
          shown in Figure 6. Plasmid pJC11 had the region upstream
          of the 
          Pst I site fused to the region of
          the 
          mec-3 promoter, whereas pJC10 had
          just the 
          mec-3 region upstream of the 
          Pst I site. We transformed TU2562
          with these plasmids and generated transgenic lines.
          Because the extrachromosomal arrays did not contain 
          mec-3gfp , we first picked rollers
          and then scored them for ALM position. Due to the mosaic
          inheritance of extrachromosomal arrays, some of the ALMs
          scored may not have contained the array.
          Figure 6shows the regions of 
          mec-3 included in each plasmid and
          the distribution of ALM positions from three separate
          strains made with each plasmid. On the right are listed
          the percent of ALMs that showed migration defects and the
          total number of ALMs scored from the three strains
          transformed with each construct. Plasmids pJC10 and pJC11
          appeared to be equally capable of inducing ALM migration
          defects.
        
        
          What is the sequence?
          To further refine the region responsible for inducing
          the ALM migration defect, we generated plasmids
          containing further deletions of the 495 bp 
          mec-3 region upstream of the 
          Pst I site. We transformed these
          plasmids into TU2562 and analyzed the ALM positions in
          the resulting lines as we did for the lines shown in
          Figure 6. Figure 7shows the results of this experiment.
          Arrays containing pJC15 induced migration defects less
          effectively than arrays containing pJC10 (Fig. 6), so
          sequences within the 
          Pst I to 
          Bgl II region appear to contribute
          to the migration defect. However, the pJC13 data show
          that arrays containing this sequence by itself induced
          few migration errors. pJC15 arrays and pJC14 arrays
          induced similar migration defects, so the sequence from
          the 
          Bgl II to the 
          Hpa I restriction sites did not
          appear to contribute to the migration defect. pJC16
          arrays induced fewer migration defects than pJC14 arrays
          and pJC17 arrays induced fewer migration defects than
          pJC16 arrays, so there appeared to be multiple sequences
          between the 
          Hpa I and 
          Bsa BI restriction sites that
          contributed to the migration defect.
        
        
          Does this sequence affect all cell
          migrations?
          The QR.p neuroblast is generated in the posterior of
          the animal [ 12, 25]. As shown in Figure 8A, it migrates
          anteriorly to the middle of the animal where it stops and
          then divides. One of the resulting cells, QR.pp,
          undergoes programmed cell death while the other, QR.pa
          migrates forward to about position 7 and again stops and
          divides. QR.pa gives rise to two neurons, SDQR and the
          AVM touch receptor neuron. Thus, if the transgenic arrays
          containing the titrating sequence affect all cell
          migrations, the AVMs should also be misplaced.
          To test this idea, we measured the AVM positions in
          TU2562 and EA485. Figure 8Bshows the distributions of AVM
          positions for these two strains. The average positions of
          the AVMs in EA485 and in TU2562 were both 6.3. As shown
          above, the ALMs in TU2562 were near their normal
          positions, whereas the ALMs in EA485 were grossly
          misplaced. Clearly, the migrations of the QR.p neuroblast
          and its daughter, QR.pa, unlike the ALM neurons, were not
          affected by the extrachromosomal array in EA485.
        
        
          The ALM migration and the PLM axonal morphology
          defects are highly correlated
          Strains that had many ALM migration defects also had
          many PLM axonal defects. The correlation coefficient of
          the average ALM position versus the percent of animals
          with PLM axonal defects was -0.99. This correlation
          between the ALM defects and the PLM defects is consistent
          with both defects resulting from the titration of the
          same factor or factors.
        
        
          The titrating sequence did not affect the ALM/BDU
          cell division or the positions of the BDUs
          In strains containing these arrays, some of the ALMs
          that were anterior to position 6 had an axonal morphology
          similar to their lineal sisters, the BDU neurons. We
          wondered whether in these animals the ALM/BDU cell
          division was not occurring and the progenitor of these
          neurons was taking on some of the character of both
          cells. This ALM/BDU cell might migrate anteriorly, like a
          BDU, and express 
          mec-3gfp , like an ALM. To address
          this, we asked whether the BDU neurons were present in
          animals where the ALMs were displaced anteriorly. We took
          advantage of the fact that in 
          pag-3 mutants, 
          mec-3gfp is expressed in both the
          ALMs and in the BDUs (McDermott, J. et al., unpublished
          results). We crossed the pJC4 array in EA485 into a 
          pag-3(ls20) genetic background to
          generate strain EA489. As a control, we crossed the
          integrated array in TU2562 into a 
          pag-3(ls20) genetic background to
          generate strain EA363. In these strains, we measured the
          positions of the ALMs and BDUs. In a 
          pag-3(ls20) background, the BDU
          neurons have a lower level of 
          mec-3gfp expression than the ALM
          neurons so these neurons can be easily distinguished. In
          EA489, the BDUs were present even in animals with ALMs
          anterior to position 3 and they were located in their
          normal positions. The average position of BDUs in EA489
          was 3.3 (n=50). The average position of BDUs in EA363 was
          3.6 (n=50). Thus, the ALM/BDU cell divisions were taking
          place and the BDUs were migrating normally in these
          strains.
        
        
          The migration defect was cold sensitive
          To determine whether the ALM migration defect was
          sensitive to temperature, we grew EA471 and TU2562 at
          15°C, 20°C and 25°C. We then measured the positions of
          the ALMs in each strain grown at each temperature. EA471
          (a strain transformed with pJC3) was chosen because it
          showed an intermediate distribution of ALM positions at
          20°C (see Figure 4), so either an anterior or a posterior
          shift would be apparent. TU2562 was chosen because its
          ALMs migrated close to their normal positions at
          20°C.
          Figure 9shows the distribution of ALM positions for
          each strain at each temperature. The temperature at which
          the animals were grown affected ALM migrations in both
          EA471 and TU2562. ALMs were located more anteriorly in
          both EA471 and TU2562 grown at 15°C. TU2562 grown at 25°C
          had fewer ALMs anterior to position 9 than TU2562 grown
          at 20°C.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        We have identified a sequence in the 
        mec-3 upstream region that, when
        present in high copy extrachromosomal arrays, caused the
        ALM touch receptor neurons to migrate aberrantly and caused
        PLM touch receptor neuron axonal defects. These defects
        were not due to RNAi, nonspecific effects of carrying a
        transgenic array, expression of GFP, or the marker gene
        used to make the transformants. Rather, these defects
        resulted from transgenic arrays containing many copies of a
        specific sequence from the 
        mec-3 upstream control region.
        Figure 1Ashows the direction and extent of the ALM and
        BDU cell migrations. ALMs that failed to migrate would
        remain around position 5 [ 12]. In strains transformed with
        the titrating sequence, the ALMs often migrated anteriorly
        rather than posteriorly and were located anterior to
        position 5. Thus, the arrays appeared to be sequestering a
        factor that controls both the direction and extent of ALM
        migrations. Presumably, the BDU neurons normally inherit a
        small amount of this factor and migrate anteriorly, while
        the ALMs inherit a larger amount of this factor and migrate
        posteriorly.
        All ALMs that showed defects in axon morphology were
        anterior to position 6. Perhaps ALMs positioned anterior to
        position 6 sometimes fail to find their normal axon
        guidance cues. Interestingly, some of these anteriorly
        positioned ALMs had axon morphologies similar to BDU
        neurons. These cells, being deprived of their own axon
        guidance cues, may have followed the BDU axon guidance
        cues.
        Figure 4shows that the sequence upstream of the 
        Pst I restriction site appeared to
        contribute strongly to the ALM migration defects. Plasmids
        containing this sequence (pJC8, pJC3 and pJC4) induced many
        ALM migration defects, whereas plasmids lacking this
        sequence (pPD118.17 and pJC1) induced few migration
        defects. Figure 6shows that this upstream 
        mec-3 sequence alone (pJC10) was
        sufficient to induce migration defects. Smaller pieces of
        the sequence upstream of the 
        Pst I site are also sufficient to
        induce ALM migration defects (Fig. 7). The smallest
        sequence tested that caused the migration defects (pJC16,
        Fig. 7) contained only 157 bp upstream of the 
        Eco RI restriction site.
        These conclusions assume that the arrays generated for
        each construct have roughly the same number of copies of
        the titrating sequence. We controlled for strain-to-strain
        variability in the array size by discarding strains with
        low transmission frequencies (see Materials and Methods)
        and by combining the data from at least three independently
        generated strains transformed with each construct. Because
        the strain-to-strain variability was small, this assumption
        is probably valid.
        Other sequences around the titrating sequence appeared
        to facilitate the binding of the factor or factors involved
        in controlling ALM cell migrations. For instance, plasmid
        pJC10, which contained more surrounding sequence, was more
        effective than pJC15. These surrounding sequences may
        contain additional binding sites for this factor or the
        migration factor may interact with other proteins that bind
        the 
        mec-3 upstream sequences. Thus, the
        binding of one factor might cooperatively facilitate the
        binding of other factors. Li et al. [ 26] identified a
        sequence upstream of 
        her-1 that phenocopied an 
        sdc mutation when transformed into 
        C. elegans in high copy arrays. They
        too found that several regions of the 
        her-1 upstream sequence contributed
        to the effect.
        The results shown in Figure 7suggest that a 104 bp
        sequence,
        5'AAATCTCAAT-10-CTAAAAACAT-20-TTTTAGAACT-30-TTTTCAAAGA
        -40-TATGTTGAAT-50-TCTGGCAACT-60-TTAGGTAGTT-70-TTAAATTTTC-
        80-CACGAAATTT-90-CAAATCAAAT-100-GTTA 3', contributed
        strongly to the ALM migration defects. The region from
        nucleotide 39-96 is a degenerate palindrome. Within this
        palindrome there are two more levels of nested palindromes.
        For instance, the 69-96 region is palindromic, and within
        the 69-96 region, the 84-96 region is palindromic.
        Some of this interesting sequence structure may result
        from the juxtaposition of transcription factor binding
        sites. For instance, the sequence from 72-92 would be an
        excellent binding site in both its forward and reverse
        orientations for the 
        Drosophila STAT transcription factor
        D-STAT [ 27]. There are two proteins with homology to the
        STAT family of transcription factors in 
        C. elegans . This sequence is
        followed by the repeated sequence caaatcaaat, which would
        provide two good binding sites for the mammalian brain POU
        transcription factor Brn-2 [ 28]. Brn-2 is related to
        UNC-86, which is required to initiate and sustain 
        mec-3 expression.
        The titrating sequence is located between two genes that
        are positioned head-to-head, 
        mec-3 and F01D4.1, which encodes a
        UDP-glucoronosyltransferase. The titrating element could be
        regulating either, neither, or both of these genes. Because
        this element appeared to sequester a factor involved in ALM
        migration and PLM axon outgrowth, it is probably a 
        mec-3 control element.
        
        mec-3gfp fusion genes that lack this
        element appear to be correctly expressed. What aspect,
        then, of 
        mec-3 expression is affected by this
        control element? 
        mec-3 is activated by UNC-86 protein
        [ 13, 14, 15]. Once MEC-3 protein is made, UNC-86 and MEC-3
        form a heterodimer that more effectively activates 
        mec-3 . Perhaps the titrating element
        is involved in the initial 
        mec-3 activation. This role would not
        be apparent in 
        mec-3gfp fusion genes because they
        would be activated by the endogenous UNC-86/MEC-3
        heterodimer. Alternatively, this element might help sustain
        
        mec-3 expression. Finally, this
        element might modulate 
        mec-3 expression in a way that is not
        evident by looking at the MEC-3GFP fluorescence.
        Figure 5demonstrates that the ALM migration defect
        arises due to having many copies of the titrating sequence.
        Arrays made with few copies of pJC4 did not induce ALM
        migration defects, whereas arrays containing many copies of
        pJC4 did, thus suggesting that the arrays that altered ALM
        cell migrations acted by titrating a control factor.
        It is somewhat surprising that high copy arrays could
        titrate this factor to low enough levels to induce
        phenotypes. Transgenic arrays in 
        C. elegans contain about 50-100
        copies of the plasmids used to make the array [ 29].
        Assuming that each copy of the titrating sequence bound
        only one molecule, then shifting the concentration of this
        DNA binding factor by as few as 100 molecules caused the
        ALM migration defects. Because this factor is titratable,
        it may be present at low concentrations and bind with high
        affinity to the 
        mec-3 upstream sequence.
        Perhaps this factor is present at low concentration
        because it is part of a mechanism for sensitive regulation
        of a cell state. The relative level of a factor present at
        low concentration should be easier to change than that of a
        factor present at high concentration. These results suggest
        that ALM migrations are carefully regulated by the
        concentration of a specific DNA binding protein that is
        present in the cell in only a few copies.
        The need for an all-or-nothing response could also
        explain why there appear to be multiple sequences that
        contribute to the titration. One mechanism for steepening
        the response of an effector molecule is to require that
        more than one molecule bind to the target to induce a
        response. Perhaps the migration factor binds to several
        sites in both 
        mec-3 and in the cell migration
        genes, and multiple sites must be bound to affect
        expression.
        The factor sequestered by the titrating sequence does
        not affect all cell migrations. The AVM touch receptor
        neurons in EA485, a strain which showed a strong ALM
        migration defect, were located in the same position as the
        AVMs in TU2562, a strain which showed few ALM migration
        defects (Fig. 8). The AVM's lineal mother and grandmother
        both migrate anteriorly and if either of these migrations
        were defective, the AVMs would be mispositioned. We do not
        know whether other cell migrations were affected by the
        titrating sequence, but no other phenotypes were observed
        in animals with severe ALM migration defects.
        The incidence of PLM axonal defects correlated well with
        the ALM migration defects. We believe, therefore, that the
        PLM defects were induced by titration of the same factor or
        factors that control ALM migrations. In both cases, the
        cells failed to correctly interpret anterior-posterior
        spatial information. However, the ALMs migrated to more
        anterior positions, whereas the PLMs axons often terminated
        at more posterior positions.
        Temperature had a strong effect on the ALM migration
        defects (Fig. 9). In cells grown at lower temperatures, the
        titrated factor may be less active, it may be produced at
        low concentrations, it may bind to arrays more tightly, or
        it may interact with its ligand less effectively. The cold
        sensitivity of the ALM migration defect may be useful for
        identifying genetic suppressors of the migration
        defect.
        The factor titrated by this sequence may also be
        involved in differentiating ALMs and BDUs. It may be
        present in AB.arpppapp and AB.arppaapp, the progenitors of
        ALMR/BDUR and ALML/BDUL, respectively. When these cells
        divide to generate ALMs and BDUs, the factor may
        differentially segregate into the ALMs. A high
        concentration of this factor may direct the ALMs to migrate
        posteriorly while a low level of this factor may direct the
        BDUs to migrate anteriorly. Furthermore, this factor may
        help activate 
        mec-3 expression and thereby cause
        the ALMs to differentiate into touch receptor neurons.
        As was true in sea urchin embryos [ 30, 31], titration
        of transcription factors with high copy transgenes may be
        useful for characterizing control elements in 
        C. elegans . The ALM migration defect
        should be useful for identifying optimal conditions for the
        titration of DNA binding protein with high copy arrays. We
        do not know, at this point, how often transcription factors
        will be present at low enough concentrations and bind DNA
        with enough affinity to apply this approach. Because others
        have also reported competitive titration by transgenic
        sequences in 
        C. elegans [ 26, 32], we expect that
        it will not be uncommon. Certainly, some of the artifacts
        associated with transformation of 
        C. elegans with high copy arrays may
        result from titration of DNA binding factors [ 23].
        Transformation of 
        C. elegans with low copy arrays made
        with complex carrier DNA prevented the titration effects,
        so the use of low copy arrays may be prudent where
        titration effects are not desired.
        Kelly et al. [ 24] found that inclusion of complex
        carrier DNA in 
        C. elegans transformation experiments
        improves the function of certain co-injected reporter
        constructs. These effects include both increased expression
        and improved uniformity of transgene expression. Figure
        5shows that including complex carrier DNA may also prevent
        transformation artifacts resulting from titration of
        transcription factors.
      
      
        Conclusions
        The experiments described here show that transformation
        of 
        C. elegans with many copies of a
        specific sequence located upstream of 
        mec-3 induced cell migration and
        axonal guidance defects. This 
        mec-3 upstream sequence appeared to
        be sequestering a factor involved in controlling ALM
        migration and PLM axonal outgrowth. This factor may also
        regulate 
        mec-3 and thereby control touch
        receptor neuron fate. Titration of transcription factors
        with high copy arrays may become widely applicable in 
        C. elegans once conditions that
        optimize this effect are found. The ALM defect described
        here may be useful for finding these conditions.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Worm culture and strain methods
          
          C. elegans were maintained as
          described by Brenner [ 33]. Animals were grown at 20°C
          unless otherwise stated. The wild type strain was N2 var.
          Bristol. Strain TU2562, 
          mec-3gfp (uIs22), was a gift from
          M. Chalfie.
        
        
          Plasmid constructs
          Standard molecular biology methods were used in making
          the following plasmids [ 34]. To make pJC1, we removed a 
          Pst I- 
          Bbs I fragment from pPD118.17, a
          gift from A. Fire. To make pJC3, we subcloned the 
          Nsi I- 
          Pst I fragment (1246 bp) of pTU23 [
          35] into the 
          Pst I site of pPD118.17. We made
          pJC4 by deleting the 
          Pst I- 
          Bbs I fragment (1329 bp) from
          pJC3.
          We made pJC8 from pBS1 and pJC3. To make pBS1, the
          oligonucleotides 5'ACCTCCCAAACTATAGATTGGGTG 3'and
          5'CGGCCAGAGTCGACTCACATATTG 3'were used to amplify a 1370
          bp fragment from pTU23. This introduced a 
          Sal I site near the 3' end of the
          third exon of 
          mec-3 . We digested this fragment
          with 
          Hind III and 
          Sal I, and ligated it into the 
          Hind III and 
          Sal I sites of pPD95.67, a gift
          from A. Fire. We removed the 
          Kpn I- 
          Kpn I fragment from pBS1 to make
          pBS1ΔK. We digested pBS1ΔK and pJC3 with both 
          Bbs I and 
          Xho I to remove a 1657 bp piece and
          a 908 bp piece, respectively. The remaining fragments
          were religated to make pJC8.
          The only 
          mec-3 sequence in plasmid pJC10 was
          the 495 bp sequence 5' to the 
          Pst I site. We constructed pJC10 by
          deleting the 
          Pst I- 
          Nhe I fragment (2861 bp) from pJC3.
          To make pJC11, we removed the 
          Not I- 
          Nhe I fragment (944 bp) from pJC4.
          Plasmid pJC12 was a 
          Hinc II- 
          Hinc II deletion (443 bp) of pJC10.
          To make pJC13, we removed the 
          Hinc II- 
          Bgl II fragment (602 bp) from
          pJC10. pJC14 was a 
          Hpa I- 
          Bsp EI deletion (309 bp) of pJC10,
          and pJC15 was a 
          Bgl II- 
          Bsp EI deletion (150 bp) of pJC10.
          To make pJC16, we digested pJC10 with 
          Bsp EI and 
          Eco RI to remove a 365 bp fragment.
          pJC17 was a 
          Bsp EI- 
          Bsa BI deletion (412 bp) of pJC10.
          pJC18 was a 
          Hinc II- 
          Hinc II deletion (443 bp) of pJC4,
          and pJC19 was a 
          Bsa BI- 
          Bgl II deletion (262 bp) of pJC4.
          All plasmids were prepared with the Wizard midiprep kit
          (Promega).
        
        
          Transformation of C. elegans
          Germ-line transformation was done as described by
          Mello et al. [ 29]. All constructs were co-injected with
          plasmid pRF4 containing the semidominant 
          rol-6(su1006) allele, which causes
          a roller phenotype. Plasmids pJC1, pJC3, pJC4, and pJC8
          were injected into N2 wild type animals at 100 μg/ml.
          Plasmids pJC10-pJC15 were injected into TU2562 at 100
          μg/ml. Plasmid pRF4 was co-injected with all plasmids at
          100 μg/ml.
          To test whether the number of copies in the arrays had
          an effect on ALM migration, 
          Stu I cut pJC4 was co-injected with
          
          Sma I cut pRF4 and 
          Pvu II cut genomic DNA at the
          following concentrations (μg/ml): 2, 2, 100; 4, 4, 92; 8,
          8, 84; 16, 16, 68; 32, 32, 36; 64, 32, 18; and 128, 32,
          9, respectively. Larger arrays are transmitted to the
          next generation more effectively than smaller arrays [
          36]. All of the strains presented here had transmission
          frequencies greater than 16%.
        
        
          Microscopy
          Microscopy was done on an Olympus IMT-2 inverted
          microscope and on an Olympus AX70 microscope. A Power Mac
          G3 7100/80 with a frame grabber and IPlab software was
          used to collect and process images from the AX70. Both
          microscopes were equipped with fluorescence and Nomarski
          optics. Animals were immobilized with approximately 30 mM
          sodium azide and viewed at 100 X or 400 X.
        
        
          RNAi
          To make double stranded RNA for RNAi, we placed the 
          Pst I- 
          Rsa I fragment from pJC3 into
          pBluescript II KS+. RNA was made from the T3 and T7
          promoters in pBluescript with a Maxiscript kit (Ambion).
          The dsRNA was injected at a concentration of 25
          μg/ml.
        
        
          Computer analysis
          Sequence homologies were identified with the Blast
          algorithm [ 37, 38] at the National Center for
          Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/).
          To identify long-range palindromic structures, an RNA
          secondary structure algorithm in the program DNASIS
          version 2.0 was used. Transcription factor binding sites
          were identified with MatInspector at
          http://genomatix.gsf.de/cgi-bin/matinspector/matinspector.pl
          [ 39].
        
      
    
  
