
  
    
      
        Introduction
        The knowledge of a complete genome sequence holds the
        potential to reveal the 'blueprints' for cellular life. The
        genome sequence contains the information to propagate the
        living system, and this information exists as open reading
        frames (ORFs) and regulatory information. Computational
        approaches have been developed (and are continuously being
        improved) to decipher the information encoded in the DNA [
        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]. However, it is becoming evident that
        cellular functions are intricate and the integrated
        function of biological systems involves many complex
        interactions among the molecular components within the
        cell. To understand the complexity inherent in cellular
        networks, approaches that focus on the systemic properties
        of the network are also required.
        The complexity of integrated cellular systems leads to
        an important point, namely that the properties of complex
        biological processes cannot be analyzed or predicted based
        solely on a description of the individual components, and
        integrated systems based approaches must be applied [ 8].
        The focus of such research represents a departure from the
        classical 
        reductionist approach in the
        biological sciences, and moves toward the 
        integrated approach to understanding
        the interrelatedness of gene function and the role of each
        gene in the context of multi genetic cellular functions or 
        genetic circuits [ 8, 9, 10].
        The engineering approach to analysis and design of
        complex systems is to have a mathematical or computer
        model; e.g. a dynamic simulator of a cellular process that
        is based on fundamental physicochemical laws and
        principles. Herein, we will analyze the integrated function
        of the metabolic pathways, and there has been a long
        history of mathematical modeling of metabolic networks in
        cellular systems, which dates back to the 1960s [ 11, 12].
        While the ultimate goal is the development of dynamic
        models for the complete simulation of cellular metabolism,
        the success of such approaches has been severely hampered
        by the lack of kinetic information on the dynamics and
        regulation of metabolism. However, in the absence of
        kinetic information it is still possible to assess the
        theoretical capabilities and operative modes of metabolism
        using flux balance analysis (FBA) [ 10, 13, 14, 15, 16,
        17].
        We have developed an 
        in silico representation of 
        Escherichia coli (E. coli in
        silico) to describe the bacterium's metabolic
        capabilities [ 18]. 
        E. coli in silico was derived based
        on the annotated genetic sequence [ 19], biochemical
        literature [ 20], and the online bioinformatic databases [
        21, 22, 23]. The properties of 
        E. coli in silico were analyzed and
        compared to the 
        in vivo properties of 
        E. coli, and it was shown that 
        E. coli in silico can be used to
        interpret the metabolic phenotype of many 
        E. coli mutants [ 18]. However, the
        utilization of the metabolic genes is dependent on the
        carbon source and the substrate availability [ 24, 25].
        Thus, the mutant phenotype is also dependent on specific
        environmental parameters. Therefore, herein we have
        utilized 
        E. coli in silico to computationally
        examine the condition dependent optimal metabolic pathway
        utilization, and we will show that the FBA can be used to
        analyze and interpret the metabolic behavior of wildtype
        and mutant 
        E. coli strains.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Flux balance analysis
          All biological processes are subjected to physico
          chemical constraints (such as mass balance, osmotic
          pressure, electro neutrality, thermodynamic, and other
          constraints). As a result of decades of metabolic
          research and the recent genome sequencing projects, the
          mass balance constraints on cellular metabolism can be
          assigned on a genome scale for a number of organisms.
          Methods have been developed to analyze the metabolic
          capabilities of a cellular system based on the mass
          balance constraints and this approach is known as flux
          balance analysis (FBA) [ 13, 14, 16] (see the
          supplementary information for an FBA primer). The mass
          balance constraints in a metabolic network can be
          represented mathematically by a matrix equation:
          S • v = 0 Equation 1
          The matrix 
          S is the 
          mxn stoichiometric matrix, where 
          m is the number of metabolites and 
          n is the number of reactions in the
          network (The 
          E. coli stoichiometric matrix is
          available in matrix format in the supplementary
          information and in a reaction list in Appendices 1-3).
          The vector 
          v represents all fluxes in the
          metabolic network, including the internal fluxes,
          transport fluxes and the growth flux.
          For the 
          E. coli metabolic network
          represented by Eqn. 1, the number of fluxes was greater
          than the number of mass balance constraints; thus, there
          were multiple feasible flux distributions that satisfied
          the mass balance constraints, and the solutions (or
          feasible metabolic flux distributions) were confined to
          the nullspace of the matrix 
          S .
          In addition to the mass balance constraints, we
          imposed constraints on the magnitude of individual
          metabolic fluxes.
          α 
          
            i 
           ≤ v 
          
            i 
           ≤ β 
          
            i 
           Equation 2
          The linear inequality constraints were used to enforce
          the reversibility of each metabolic reaction and the
          maximal flux in the transport reactions. The
          reversibility constraints for each reaction are indicated
          online. The transport flux for inorganic phosphate,
          ammonia, carbon dioxide, sulfate, potassium, and sodium
          was unrestrained (α 
          
            i 
           = -∞ and β 
          
            i 
           = ∞). The transport flux for the other metabolites,
          when available in the 
          in silico medium, was constrained
          between zero and the maximal level (0 ≤ v 
          
            i 
           ≤ v 
          
            i 
           max). The v 
          
            i 
           
          max values used in the simulations
          are noted for each simulation (Fig. 1). When a metabolite
          was not available in the medium, the transport flux was
          constrained to zero. The transport flux for metabolites
          capable of leaving the metabolic network (i.e. acetate,
          ethanol, lactate, succinate, formate, and pyruvate) was
          always unconstrained in the net outward direction.
          The intersection of the nullspace and the region
          defined by the linear inequalities defined a region in
          flux space that we will refer to as the feasible set, and
          the feasible set defined the capabilities of the
          metabolic network subject to the imposed cellular
          constraints. It should be noted that every vector 
          v within the feasible set is not
          reachable by the cell under a given condition due to
          other constraints not considered in the analysis (i.e.
          maximal internal fluxes and gene regulation). The
          feasible set can be further reduced by imposing
          additional constraints (i.e. kinetic or gene regulatory
          constraints), and in the limiting condition where all
          constraints are known, the feasible set may reduce to a
          single point.
          A particular metabolic flux distribution within the
          feasible set (vector 
          v which satisfies the constraints in
          Eqns. 1 and 2) was found using linear programming (LP). A
          commercially available LP package was used (LINDO, Lindo
          Systems Inc., Chicago, II). LP identified a solution that
          minimized a metabolic objective function (subject to the
          imposed constraints- Eqns. 1 and 2) [ 16, 48, 49], and
          was formulated as shown below:
          Minimize -Z
          where 
          Z = Σ 
          c 
          
            i 
           v 
          
            i 
           = <c • v> Equation 3
          The vector 
          c was used to select a linear
          combination of metabolic fluxes to include in the
          objective function [ 50]. Herein, 
          c was defined as the unit vector in
          the direction of the growth flux, and the growth flux was
          defined in terms of the biosynthetic requirements:
          (Equation 4)
          where 
          d 
          
            m 
           is the biomass composition of metabolite X 
          
            m 
           (we used a constant biomass composition defined from
          the literature [ 51] (see Appendix 4)), and the growth
          flux was modeled as a single reaction that converts all
          the biosynthetic precursors into biomass.
        
        
          Phenotype Phase Plane Analysis
          All feasible 
          E. coli in silico metabolic flux
          distributions are mathematically confined to the feasible
          set, which is a region in flux space ( n), where each
          solution in this space corresponds to a feasible
          metabolic flux distribution.
          Phenotype Phase Plane (PhPP): A PhPP is a
          two-dimensional projection of the feasible set, and below
          we will briefly discuss the formalism for constructing
          the PhPP. Two parameters that describe the growth
          conditions (such as substrate and oxygen uptake rates)
          were defined as the two axes of the two dimensional
          space. The optimal flux distribution was calculated
          (using LP) for all points in this plane by solving the LP
          problem while adjusting the exchange flux constraints
          (defining the two-dimensional space). A finite number of
          qualitatively different patterns of metabolic pathway
          utilization were identified in such a plane, and lines
          were drawn to demarcate these regions. Each region is
          denoted by Pn 
          x, y , where 'P' indicates that the
          region was defined by a phenotype phase plane analysis,
          'n' denotes the number of the demarcated phase (as shown
          in a particular PhPP figure), and 'x, y' denotes the two
          uptake rates on the axis of the PhPP. PhPPs were also
          generated for mutant genotypes; represented as P genen 
          x, y .
          One demarcation line in the PhPP was defined as the
          line of optimality (LO). The LO represents the optimal
          relation between exchange fluxes defined on the axes of
          the PhPP.
        
        
          Alterations of the genotype
          FBA and 
          E. coli in silico were used to
          examine the systemic effects of in 
          silico gene deletions. The genes
          involved in the central metabolic pathways (glycolysis,
          pentose phosphate pathway, TCA cycle, electron transport)
          were subjected to removal from 
          E. coli in silico. To simulate a
          gene deletion, all metabolic reactions catalyzed by a
          given gene product were simultaneously constrained to
          zero. Some metabolic reactions were catalyzed by more
          than one enzyme, and all genes that code for enzymes that
          catalyze a given reaction were simultaneously removed
          (i.e. 
          rpiAB ). Furthermore, all genes
          that make up an enzyme complex were also simultaneously
          removed (i.e. 
          sdhABCD ).
          The optimal metabolic flux distribution for the
          generation of biomass was calculated for each 
          in silico deletion strain. The 
          in silico gene deletion analysis
          was performed with the transport flux constraints defined
          by the wild-type PhPP. The constraints imposed for each
          simulation are noted in Fig. 1.
          For each 
          in silico deletion strain, the
          optimal production of the twelve biosynthetic precursors
          and the metabolic cofactors was also calculated to
          identify auxotrophic requirements and impaired functions
          in the metabolic network (Table 1). The optimal
          production of the biosynthetic precursors was calculated
          by setting the objective function to the drain of a
          single metabolite (i.e., ATP → ADP + P 
          i , or PEP →). The numerical value of
          the objective function for each 
          in silico deletion strain was
          reported as a fraction of the wild-type optimal value
          (Table 1).
        
      
      
        Results
        We have previously described the construction of
        phenotype phase planes (PhPPs) (see materials and methods)
        and the analysis of the glucose-oxygen PhPP. We have
        previously described the effect of 
        in silico 'gene deletions' on the
        ability of 
        E. coli in silico to 'grow' under a
        single condition [ 18]. Since the utilization of the
        metabolic pathways is condition dependent, herein, we have
        investigated the link between the environmental conditions
        and the optimal metabolic pathway utilization 
        in silico by: 1. studying the effects
        of gene deletions in all phases of the glucose-oxygen PhPP,
        and 2. broadening the analysis of 
        in silico deletion strains by
        comparing PhPPs from isogenic 
        in silico strains.
        
        Gene Deletions : A point within each
        phase of the glucose-oxygen PhPP was chosen to define the
        transport flux constraints (indicated in Fig. 1) for the
        FBA simulations. At each point, the growth characteristics
        of all 
        in silico gene deletion strains (of
        central metabolic pathway genes) were examined. Based on
        the results, the genes were categorized as; 
        essential (growth under the defined
        condition requires the activity of the corresponding gene
        product), 
        critical (growth at a reduced yield
        (< 95% of wild-type)), or 
        non-essential (growth at near
        wild-type yield (> 95%)). The effects of the 
        in silico gene deletions were
        phase-dependent, allowing us to identify optimal growth
        phenotypes for each growth condition. Additionally, the
        optimal production of the 12 biosynthetic precursors,
        high-energy phosphate bonds, and redox potential was
        calculated for each 
        in silico deletion strain (Table 1)
        to determine the specific effect of the gene deletion on
        the metabolic capabilities. For instance, the 
        in silico acnAB' strain was unable to
        synthesize α-ketoglutarate under all simulated growth
        conditions, and thus, 
        acnAB was defined as essential for
        growth in a glucose minimal media (Table 1).
        The optimal utilization of the metabolic pathways was
        dependent on the specific transport flux constraints, and
        the qualitative shifts in optimal metabolic behavior as a
        function of two transport fluxes are shown in the PhPP. The
        optimal biomass yield and biosynthetic precursor production
        capabilities were calculated for each 
        E. coli in silico deletion strain for
        a point within each region of the PhPP, and the optimal
        values were normalized to the wild-type (Fig. 1). The
        condition dependent metabolic phenotypes were
        computationally analyzed, and the results are organized by
        the overall metabolic phenotype; 
        essential, conditionally
        essential, or 
        non-essential genes. 
        
        Essential genes : The gene products
        that were essential for growth with conditions defined by
        the line of optimality (LO) (see materials and methods)
        were also identified as essential within all other phases (
        
        acnAB, gapAC, gltA, icdA, pgk, rpiAB,
        tktAB ). Specifically, the 
        gltA -, 
        icdA -, and 
        acnAB - 
        in silico deletion strains were
        unable to produce one biosynthetic precursor
        (α-ketoglutarate, Table 1), and retained the capability to
        synthesize the remaining biosynthetic precursors and
        cofactors nearly equivalent to the wild-type. This
        prediction is consistent with the defined media required
        for the cultivation of 
        aglt - 
        E. coli mutant strain (glucose
        minimal media supplemented with glutamine or proline) [
        26]. Furthermore, the essential glycolytic gene products ( 
        pgk, gapAC ) were required for the
        synthesis of oxaloacetate, succinyl-CoA, α-ketoglutarate,
        pyruvate, phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), and 3-phosphoglycerate
        within all conditions, and were unable to synthesize all
        biosynthetic precursors under anaerobic growth conditions.
        The remaining two essential gene products were in the
        pentosephosphate pathway ( 
        tktAB, rpiAB ). The 
        tktAB and 
        rpiAB gene products were required for
        the synthesis of erythrose 4-phosphate in all phases
        (aromatic amino acid supplement required for the
        cultivation of 
        tkt - 
        E. coli mutant strains [ 27]).
        Additionally, 
        rpiAB -strains were identified as
        ribose auxotrophs by the 
        in silico analysis, which was
        consistent with experimental data [ 28].
        
        Conditionally essential genes :
        During the growth simulations with external parameters
        defined by the LO, there were genes defined as critical for
        growth; however, many of these genes were essential for
        cellular growth upon oxygen limitations ( 
        fba, pfkAB, tpiA, eno, gpmAB ). These
        genes were termed conditionally essential. The 
        fba -, 
        pfkAB -, and 
        tpiA - 
        in silico deletion strains had a
        limited capability to synthesize glyceraldehyde
        3-phosphate, 3-phosphoglycerate, phosphoenolpyruvate,
        pyruvate, acetyl-CoA, α-ketoglutarate, succinyl-CoA,
        oxaloacetate, and high-energy phosphate bonds in all
        phases, and were completely unable to synthesize many of
        the biosynthetic precursors in phases 46 (Table 1) ( 
        tpi - 
        in silico strain discussed below).
        The growth potential of the 
        eno -and 
        gpmAB - 
        in silico deletion strains was
        theoretically maintained under aerobic conditions by the
        synthesis and degradation of serine, and without the serine
        degradation pathway, the 
        eno -and 
        gpmAB -gene products were defined as
        essential. However, the 
        eno -and 
        gpmAB - 
        in silico deletion strains were
        limited in their production capability of high-energy
        phosphate bonds under all conditions, and were unable to
        produce any of the biosynthetic precursors in phase 6 even
        with the serine degradation pathway.
        Additionally, several LO non-essential gene products
        were essential ( 
        sdhABCD, ppc, frdABCD ) for growth
        within other phases. The 
        in silico analysis suggested that the
        
        sdhABCD and 
        frdABCD gene products were required
        for anaerobic pyrimidine biosynthesis. Additionally, the 
        frdABCD gene products were essential
        for the anaerobic synthesis of the NAD cofactor. However,
        these 
        in silico results could be due to
        inaccurate stoichiometric information with respect to
        cofactor utilization and should be critically examined.
        Finally, the 
        ppc gene product was required for the
        anaerobic synthesis of oxaloacetate and α-ketoglutarate,
        but the 
        in silico analysis suggests that this
        gene product is not essential for growth in aerobic
        conditions where the glyoxylate by-pass has the potential
        to replenish the biosynthetic precursors [ 29].
        
        Non-essential genes : Several genes
        that are critical for growth in conditions defined by the
        LO were non-essential for growth in other phases ( 
        nuo , 
        cyoABCD, fumABC ). The 
        in silico nuo -and 
        cyoABCD -deletion strains were
        limited in their production capabilities of high-energy
        phosphate bonds for aerobic growth; however, under
        anaerobic conditions high-energy phosphate bonds were
        produced by substrate level phosphorylation. The production
        capabilities of the 
        fumABC - 
        in silico deletion strain was not
        limited with respect to the biosynthetic precursors shown
        in the table (other than a slight limitation of ATP
        production in P1 
        glucose, oxygen ). However, the 
        fumABC - 
        in silico deletion strain was limited
        in its production capabilities of several amino acids (arg,
        gly, his- not shown in table), but under anaerobic
        conditions, these capabilities were not limited with
        respect to the wild-type.
        Several LO non-essential gene products were critical ( 
        pgi, pta, ackAB ) for growth within
        other phases. The 
        in silico pgi deletion strain had a
        reduced capacity to produce all the biosynthetic precursors
        under oxygen limitation, and this resulted in a decreased
        normalized growth yield of this 
        in silico deletion strain. The 
        pta and 
        ackAB gene products participate in
        the metabolic pathway leading to the formation of acetate.
        Acetate was predicted as a metabolic by-product upon oxygen
        limitations (all phases below the LO). Under conditions
        defined by P5-6 
        glucose, oxygen , the production
        capabilities of several of the biosynthetic precursors
        (glucose 6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, ribose
        5-phosphate, erythrose 5-phosphate, glyceraldehyde
        3-phosphate) were limited in the 
        pta and 
        ackAB in silico deletion strains ( 
        pta - 
        In silico deletion strain discussed
        below).
        This sub-section illustrated the condition-dependent
        effect of gene deletions on the metabolic
        genotype-phenotype relation. The results covered the range
        of substrate uptake rates and defined the optimal metabolic
        pathway utilization of isogenic strains 
        in silico under different
        combinations of environmental parameters. The optimal
        utilization of the metabolic pathways was dependent on the
        metabolic genotype; thus, different metabolic genotypes are
        characterized by different PhPPs. The results presented
        above provide insight into the genotype phenotype relation.
        Next, we will compare the PhPPs from 
        in silico deletion strains to the
        wild-type to provide a more complete definition of optimal
        phenotypes.
        
        in silico Deletion Strain Phenotype Phase
        Plane Analysis : Comparative analysis of the phase
        planes for several mutant strains ( 
        tpi - 
        , pta - 
        , and 
        zwf ) were performed. These case
        studies were chosen to further investigate the metabolic
        genotype-phenotype relation 
        in silico and to demonstrate the use
        of FBA to interpret and analyze cellular metabolism.
        
        tpi : The 
        tpi -PhPP showed 3 distinct optimal
        metabolic phenotypes- one glucose limited phase (P 
        tpi 2 
        glucose, oxygen ), and two futile phases
        (Fig. 2A). Futile phases are characterized by a negative
        effect of one of the substrates on the objective function.
        One of the futile phases was due to excess oxygen (P 
        tpi 1 
        glucose, oxygen ) and the other was due
        to excess glucose (P 
        tpi 3 
        glucose, oxygen ). Although the 
        tpi - 
        in silico metabolic genotype
        theoretically supported biomass production, the feasible
        steady states were restricted to a limited phase of the
        phase plane and the flexibility of the metabolic network
        was reduced to one dimension.
        The optimal utilization of 
        the tpi -metabolic network under
        environmental conditions defined by the LO 
        tpi was characterized by increased
        PPP fluxes to bypass the TPI block. The PPP operated
        cyclically; thus, leading to a high production of NADPH.
        Due to the high NADPH production in the PPP, the TCA cycle
        flux was optimally reduced and functioned only to produce
        the biosynthetic precursors.
        The 
        in silico analysis suggests that the 
        tpi -metabolic network was restricted
        by the ability to regenerate phosphoenolpyruvate (PE) for
        the PTS, and the 
        in silico analysis identified 3
        metabolic 'routes' for the regeneration of PEP. Two of the
        'routes' were equivalent (alternate optimal solutions), (1)
        The PEP was regenerated by the phosphoenolpyruvate synthase
        (PPS), or (2) the glactose transporter was used for the
        transport of glucose which was subsequently phosphorylated
        by the glucokinase reaction. These two routes were
        equivalent with respect to the objective function (although
        they were structurally different). The third PEP
        regeneration route involved the glyoxylate bypass and the
        phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, and this route was
        characterized by a 38% reduction in the optimal biomass
        yield. Furthermore, experimentally it was shown that
        constitutive expression of the glyoxylate bypass suppressed
        the PEP deficient phenotype [ 30, 31]. The PEP regeneration
        routes (discussed above) theoretically allow the 
        tpi -to grow, and one of these
        solutions was required for the growth of the 
        tpi - 
        in silico strain.
        
        zwf : 
        zwf codes for glucose-6-phosphate
        dehydrogenase (G6PDH), the first enzyme in the oxidative
        branch of the PPP. 
        zwf has been shown to be a
        non-essential gene for the growth of 
        E. coli in glucose minimal media, and
        
        zwf strains grow at near wild-type
        growth rates [ 32]. 
        zwf was predicted by FBA to be a
        non-essential gene for growth in glucose minimal media
        (Fig. 1). We conducted a phenotype phase plane analysis of
        the 
        zwf strain and examined the systemic
        metabolic function of 
        zwf and its relation to the
        environmental conditions 
        in silico (Fig. 2B). The slope of the
        LO 
        zwf slightly increased (relative to
        the wild-type), indicating a higher oxygen:glucose ratio
        for optimal growth. Removing the G6PDH from the metabolic
        network eliminated all metabolic pathways that utilized the
        oxidative branch of the PPP. Therefore, the 
        zwf PhPP was significantly changed in
        the phases that utilized the oxidative branch of the PPP (P
        
        zwf 2 
        glucose, oxygen and P 
        zwf 3 
        glucose, oxygen ) but was unchanged in
        phases that did not optimally utilize the 
        zwf gene product (P 
        zwf 4 
        glucose, oxygen ).
        
        pta : Acetate excretion is a common
        characteristic of 
        E. coli metabolism and several
        approaches have been applied to reduce acetate production
        to improve the productivity of engineering strains [ 33,
        34, 35]. Acetate production can be interpreted using FBA [
        36, 37], and we have used a phase plane analysis to
        quantitatively analyze the conditions for which acetate
        excretion optimally occurs. Acetate was optimally excreted
        from the cell within all phases of the glucose-oxygen PhPP
        below the LO. We have generated the 
        pta -PhPP and analyzed the metabolic
        characteristics of the in 
        silico pta -strain (Fig. 2C). The 
        pta -PhPP indicated that this mutant
        strain maintained the potential to support growth (both
        aerobically and anaerobically). Experimentally, 
        the pta - 
        E. coli strain has been shown to grow
        aerobically and anaerobically on glucose minimal media [
        38]. The 
        in silico analysis predicted that 
        the pta -strain optimally shifted the
        carbon flux from acetate to ethanol in P 
        pta 3. However, in P 
        pta 4, the optimal metabolic
        by-products included lactate, ethanol, and pyruvate, and
        under completely anaerobic conditions, succinate was also
        optimally produced as a metabolic byproduct. These
        metabolic byproducts were qualitatively consistent with
        experimental observations in the 
        pta -strain [ 38].
      
      
        Discussion
        The rapid development of bioinformatic databases is
        resulting in extensive information about the molecular
        composition and function of several single cellular
        organisms. These genetic and biochemical databases [ 21,
        23, 39] have now been developed to the point where the
        methods of systems science need to be used to analyze,
        interpret, and predict the integrated behavior of complex
        multigeneic biological processes. Herein, we have utilized
        an 
        in silico representation of 
        E. coli to study the condition
        dependent phenotype of 
        E. coli and central metabolism gene
        deletion strains. We have shown that a computational
        analysis of the metabolic behavior can provide valuable
        insight into cellular metabolism. The results presented
        herein address a pressing question in the post-genome era; 
        how can genome sequence information be
        used to analyze integrated cellular functions? Given
        the central importance of this question, we will discuss
        the general applicability, limitations, and future
        prospects for FBA and functional genomics.
        The FBA metabolic modeling framework is different than
        other well-known metabolic modeling approaches. FBA can
        more accurately be defined as a metabolic constraining
        approach, this is because FBA defines the 'best' the cell
        can do, rather than predicting the metabolic behavior. To
        accomplish this, we have constrained metabolic function
        based on the most reliable information, the metabolic
        stoichiometry (the stoichiometry is well known for the vast
        majority of the metabolic processes). However, FBA does
        have predictive capabilities when a physiologically
        meaningful objective function can be defined, and the 
        E. coli FBA results, with maximal
        growth rate as the objective function, have been shown to
        be consistent with experimental data under nutritionally
        rich conditions [ 40]. It should be mentioned that FBA does
        not directly consider regulation, or the regulatory
        constraints on the metabolic network, but rather FBA
        assumes that the regulation is such that metabolic behavior
        is optimal. This assumption produces results that are
        generally consistent with experimental data, however, this
        assumption is only valid for a system that has evolved
        toward optimality. In mutant strains, the regulation of the
        metabolic network has not evolved to operate in an optimal
        fashion. Therefore, the optimal utilization of the mutant
        metabolic network does not necessarily correspond to the 
        in vivo utilization of the metabolic
        network. Computational analysis of metabolic processes,
        coupled to an experimental program may provide valuable
        information regarding the regulatory structure of metabolic
        networks, and will provide a challenge for future
        computational studies coupled to highly parallel
        experimental programs, such as large-scale mutation studies
        [ 41].
        Currently, about one-third of the 
        E. coli open reading frames do not
        have a functional assignment. Thus, the metabolic network
        studied here is incomplete and does not account for all the
        metabolic processes carried out by 
        E. coli. However, we have used the
        biochemical literature to refine the 
        in silico metabolic genotype and
        given the long history of 
        E. coli metabolic research [ 20], a
        large percentage of the 
        E. coli metabolic capabilities have
        likely been identified. However, when additional metabolic
        capabilities are discovered [ 42], the 
        E. coli stoichiometric matrix can be
        updated, leading to an iterative model building process.
        Furthermore, inconsistencies between the model and
        experimental data may help point to unidentified metabolic
        functions. Additionally, the 
        in silico analysis can help identify
        missing or incorrect functional assignments; for example,
        by identifying sets of metabolic reactions that are not
        connected to the metabolic network by the mass balance
        constraints.
        The study presented herein is an example of the rapidly
        growing field of 
        in silico biology. It is clear that
        computer modeling and simulations must be used iteratively
        with an experimental program to continually improve 
        in silico models and to develop
        systemic understanding of cellular functions. Thus, an 
        in silico analysis can be used to
        define an experimental program. For example, the ability to
        construct well-defined knockout strains of 
        E. coli [ 43] opens the possibility
        to critically evaluate the relation between the 
        in silico representation of mutant
        behavior and the 
        in vivo metabolic network under
        well-defined genetic and environmental conditions for
        strategically chosen genes. This possibility is
        particularly timely, given the increasing number of genome
        scale measurements that are now possible, through 2D gels [
        44, 45] and DNA array technology [ 46, 47].
      
      
        Conclusions
        Herein, we have utilized an 
        in silico representation of 
        E. coli to study the condition
        dependent phenotype of 
        E. coli and central metabolism gene
        deletion strains. We have shown that a computational
        analysis of the metabolic behavior can provide valuable
        insight into cellular metabolism. The present 
        in silico study builds on the ability
        to define metabolic genotypes in bacteria and mathematical
        methods to analyze the possible and optimal phenotypes that
        they can express. These capabilities open the possibility
        to perform 
        in silico deletion studies to help
        sort out the complexities of 
        E. coli mutant phenotypes.
      
    
  
