
  
    
      
        Background
        Rab proteins comprise a large family of Ras-related
        GTPases that function in the anterograde and retrograde
        trafficking of proteins in mammalian cells [ 1 2 3 ] .
        Different Rab proteins reside in specific subcellular
        membranes or organelles, where they mediate vesicular
        transport between discrete donor and acceptor compartments
        in the endocytic or exocytic pathways [ 4 5 ] . Detailed
        studies of a few Rab proteins ( 
        e.g .; Rab1, Rab5 and Rab9) have led
        to a general model wherein Rab proteins are presumed to
        cycle on and off donor and acceptor membranes in connection
        with changes in their guanine nucleotide state [ 6 7 8 ] .
        In the active GTP-bound state, Rab proteins associate with
        budding transport vesicles [ 9 10 11 ] and appear to
        participate in the assembly of membrane docking complexes [
        12 13 14 ] . Following vesicle fusion with the acceptor
        compartment and GTP hydrolysis, the inactive GDP-bound Rab
        is extracted from the membrane by a carrier protein termed
        guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (GDI) [ 15 16 17
        ] . The GTPase can then re-enter the transport cycle
        through nucleotide exchange promoted by a specific exchange
        factor at the donor vesicle membrane [ 18 19 20 ] . In
        addition to changes in guanine nucleotide state, the
        posttranslational prenylation of Rab proteins plays an
        important role in the cycling mechanism. Non-modified Rabs
        have a low affinity for GDI [ 21 17 ] and do not associate
        effectively with membranes [ 22 23 ] .
        Rab24, originally identified by Olkkonen 
        et al . [ 24 ] , remains one of
        several members of the Rab family without a confirmed
        biological function. We have described several unusual
        features of Rab24 that distinguish it from all other
        members of the Rab family studied to date [ 25 ] . Rab24
        has a markedly reduced GTPase activity, due primarily to
        the presence of a serine residue instead of the usual
        glutamine at the position equivalent to Q61 in H-Ras.
        Furthermore, Rab24 is not efficiently geranylgeranylated
        and does not form a detectable complex with GDI. These
        unique properties of Rab24 suggest that it may not function
        according to the accepted cyclical model.
        In the present study we set out to learn about the
        biological function of Rab24 by using a well-established
        paradigm in which a dominant-negative Rab construct is
        expressed in cultured cells, anticipating that it will
        suppress the trafficking step(s) mediated by its endogenous
        counterpart. Amino acid substitutions at the position
        cognate to N116 in H-Ras typically yield soluble Rab
        proteins that have a reduced affinity for guanine
        nucleotides. Such constructs have been used successfully to
        define the functions of Rab1A and Rab1B [ 26 27 28 ] , Rab4
        [ 29 ] , Rab5 [ 30 31 ] and Rab6 [ 32 ] . Unexpectedly, we
        found that expression of the mutant forms of Rab24 in
        cultured cells resulted in their accumulation in a striking
        array of insoluble intranuclear inclusions which disrupt
        the integrity of the nuclear envelope.
      
      
        Results
        
          Mutant forms of Rab24 accumulate in nuclear
          inclusions
          In all of the known Ras-related GTPases the guanine
          nucleotide binding site is surrounded by a set of highly
          conserved sequence elements [ 33 34 ] . One of these
          elements, termed the G2 motif, consists of NKxD (with the
          asparagine located at position 116 in H-Ras). In Rab24,
          and in some members of the Rho family, threonine occurs
          instead of the asparagine. Amino acid substitutions in
          the N(T)KxD motif cause a drastic reduction in the
          affinity of Ras-related GTPases for guanine nucleotides [
          35 36 ] . When overexpressed in cultured cells, these
          mutant GTPases function as dominant-suppressors of their
          endogenous counterparts [ 26 27 31 ] , presumably because
          they can compete for interaction with effectors, exchange
          factors or docking proteins, but cannot cycle on and off
          membranes in a nucleotide-dependent manner. We set out to
          assess the function of Rab24 by making substitutions in
          its TKxD motif, starting with D123--->I. To facilitate
          localization of the proteins, the wild-type and mutant
          constructs were made with a myc-epitope tag at the amino
          terminus. The addition of such tag sequences to
          Ras-related proteins, including several members of the
          Rab family, does not appear to alter their function or
          subcellular localization [ 36 37 38 ] .
          When mycRab24(wt) was transiently expressed in 293
          cells, immunofluorescence microscopy revealed a diffuse
          reticular distribution throughout the cytoplasm, with a
          concentration in the perinuclear region (Fig. 1A). In
          contrast, when the same studies were performed with cells
          expressing mycRab24(D123I), we observed a striking
          accumulation of the mutant protein in punctate structures
          localized in both cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments.
          In most cells the inclusions appeared to be concentrated
          predominantly within the nucleus (Fig. 1A). Identical
          structures were seen when immunofluorescence microscopy
          was performed with antibodies against the N-terminal myc
          epitope or the C-terminal hypervariable domain of Rab24,
          indicating that the immunofluorescence pattern reflected
          the localization of full-length mycRab24(D123I). Finally,
          the localization pattern of Rab24(D123I) remained the
          same when the protein was expressed without the myc tag
          (Fig. 1B).
          Western blot analyses of cytosol and particulate
          fractions obtained from the transfected 293 cells
          indicated that mycRab24(wt) was present in both
          fractions, consistent with previous results with Rab24
          and other wild-type Rab GTPases [ 25 39 ] . In contrast,
          mycRab24(D123I) was found exclusively in the particulate
          fraction (Fig. 1C). When transfected cells were disrupted
          in a buffer containing 0.5% NP-40, 0.5% deoxycholate and
          0.1% SDS, most of the Rab24(D123I) was recovered in the
          detergent-insoluble fraction (Fig. 1D). This suggested
          that the mutant protein was concentrated in inclusion
          bodies rather than membrane components.
          The nuclear inclusions containing Rab24(D123I) were
          not cell-type specific. Fig. 2Ashows that similar
          punctate structures were formed when the D123I mutant was
          expressed in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts. We also verified that
          the unique behavior of the Rab24 mutant was not related
          specifically to the substitution at the aspartate
          position in the N(T)KxD motif. Thus, similar inclusions
          were observed when Rab24 was expressed with substitutions
          at the N/T position; 
          i.e. , T120A (Fig. 2A) or T120I
          (not shown). To test the possibility that protein
          aggregates might be formed when 
          any Rab GTPase is overexpressed
          with a mutation that impairs nucleotide binding, we
          examined the localization of four additional members of
          the Rab family containing amino acid substitutions in the
          N(T)KxD motif. In all cases, these proteins exhibited a
          general cytoplasmic localization with no evidence of
          nuclear inclusions (Fig. 2A).
          Rab24 is known to be expressed endogenously in many
          cell types, including the cell lines used in these
          studies [ 24 25 ] , and we have estimated that both
          mycRab24wt and D123I are transiently expressed 5-10 fold
          over the level of endogenous Rab24 (data not shown).
          Therefore, a question raised by these studies is whether
          the genesis of nuclear inclusions occurs indirectly,
          through dominant suppression of endogenous Rab24 function
          by the D123I and T120A mutants, or directly, through
          association of cellular proteins with the accumulating
          mutant protein. We attempted to distinguish between these
          possibilities by using an alternative strategy to make a
          dominant-negative form of Rab24. Several laboratories
          have shown that in addition to mutations in the N(T)KxD
          motif, which reduce overall nucleotide binding,
          dominant-negative Rab constructs can be generated by
          introducing amino acid substitutions ( 
          e.g. , asparagine) at the position
          cognate to Ras S17 ( 
          i.e. , S22 in Rab24) [ 31 40 41 42
          ] . Such proteins are thought to be locked in an inactive
          GDP-bound state because the mutation markedly reduces
          their affinity for GTP, compared to GDP [ 42 ] . As shown
          in Fig. 2B, when mycRab24(S22N) was expressed in 3T3
          cells, there was no evidence of nuclear inclusions.
          However, when the bound 32P-labeled nucleotides
          associated with the expressed protein were analyzed by
          thin-layer chromatography (Fig. 2C), we were surprised to
          find that the S22N mutant was predominantly in the
          GTP-bound state. The inability of the S22N substitution
          to substantially reduce the affinity of Rab24 for GTP
          adds to the growing list of fundamental differences
          between Rab24 and other members of the Rab family. In a
          previous study we observed that replacing S67 with Q
          (which occupies this position all other Rab proteins)
          increases the GTPase activity of Rab24 [ 25 ] , resulting
          in a modest increase in the ratio of protein in the GDP
          versus GTP state (see Fig. 2C). When this mutant was
          expressed in 3T3 cells we again failed to observe
          inclusion bodies (Fig. 2B). Since neither Rab24(S22N) nor
          Rab24(S67Q) showed evidence of being locked in a
          GDP-bound state, it is unlikely that either would
          function as a dominant-negative. Thus, the question of
          whether the nuclear inclusions containing the D123I and
          T120A mutants are caused by dominant-negative suppression
          of endogenous Rab24 function remains to be resolved.
        
        
          Morphological characteristics of the nuclear
          inclusions
          Several follow-up studies supported the notion that
          the punctate structures containing the Rab24 mutants were
          inclusion bodies rather than membrane-bound organelles.
          For example, immunofluorescence microscopy revealed
          little or no overlap between these structures and markers
          for Golgi (Rab6, 
          Lens culinaris lectin), endosome
          (EEA1) or lysosome (LAMP-1) membranes (data not shown).
          Although Rab24 has been proposed as a possible regulator
          of autophagic processes [ 24 43 ] , the accumulation of
          punctate bodies in cells expressing Rab24(D123I) was not
          prevented by 3-methyadenine, a known inhibitor of
          autophagosome formation [ 44 ] . Most importantly,
          electron microscopy with immunogold labeling of
          mycRab24(D123I) in ultra-thin sections confirmed the
          initial impression that the inclusions are in fact
          localized within the nucleus. The expressed protein was
          concentrated in clusters of dense granules of fairly
          uniform diameter (80-150 nm) with no evidence of a
          surrounding membrane (Fig. 3A,3B). The cytoplasmic
          inclusions containing mycRab24(D123I) were similar to
          those observed inside the nucleus, except that they were
          larger, with a diameter 2-3 times that of the nuclear
          particles (Fig. 3D). Such structures were never observed
          in cells expressing mycRab24wt or any other
          over-expressed Rab GTPase.
        
        
          Disruption of nuclear architecture by inclusions
          containing Rab24(D123I)
          The accumulation of nuclear inclusions in cells
          expressing Rab24(D123I) led to progressive degeneration
          of nuclear structure. Figure 4shows a series of
          representative photographs of transfected 3T3 cells that
          were co-stained with antibody against the Rab24 myc
          epitope, combined with DAPI to visualize the chromatin
          (Fig. 4A), or an antibody against lamins A and B to
          visualize the nuclear envelope (Fig. 4B). At 24 h after
          transfection, we observed many cells with
          mycRab24-positive inclusions that showed fairly uniform
          staining of the nuclear envelope with no loss of
          chromatin or deformation of nuclear shape. However, in
          some cells with larger and more numerous inclusions we
          observed discontinuities in the anti-lamin staining of
          the nuclear envelope and some co-localization of lamin
          with mycRab24(D123I) in the intranuclear aggregates. The
          gaps in the nuclear membrane were clearly visible in
          electron micrographs of cells with large numbers of
          intranuclear aggregates (Fig. 3C). In the most extreme
          cases, the nuclear envelope was significantly distorted
          and fragmented and there was leakage of chromatin into
          the cytoplasm (Fig. 4A& 4B, lower panels). The number
          of cells with obvious nuclear disruption increased with
          time, so that by 48-h this was seen in the majority of
          the transfected cells (not shown).
          The morphological changes occurring in cells with
          accumulated Rab24(D123I) inclusions did not match the
          hallmark features of apoptosis ( 
          e.g. , membrane blebbing,
          condensation of chromatin at the nuclear periphery). This
          was confirmed by TUNEL assays where cells at various
          stages of nuclear inclusion body accumulation showed no
          evidence of DNA fragmentation, either before or after
          disruption of the nuclear envelope (Fig. 5A). In
          contrast, TUNEL-positive cells were readily detected in
          parallel cultures where apoptosis was induced by
          treatment with staurosporine (Fig. 5B).
        
        
          Rab24(D123I) disrupts nuclear import of
          glucocorticoid receptor
          Rab24 contains a unique arginine-rich insert,
          126EEDRRRRR 133 [ 25 ] in the domain cognate to loop-8 in
          H-Ras [ 34 ] . The latter sequence is reminiscent of
          unusual arginine-rich nuclear localization signals that
          allow proteins like HIV 
          tet and 
          rev to undergo nuclear
          translocation by association with importin-β, in the
          absence of importin-α [ 45 46 ] . Since the loop-8 insert
          in Rab24 lies adjacent to the conserved N(T)KxD
          nucleotide binding cassette, we hypothesized that
          conformational changes caused by the D123I substitution
          might render the Rab24 mutant capable of disrupting the
          nuclear import machinery [ 47 ] . To test this
          possibility, we co-expressed mycRab24wt or
          mycRab24(D123I) with GR-GFP, a fusion between the
          glucocorticoid receptor and green fluorescent protein.
          This protein contains a prototypical nuclear localization
          signal but remains in the cytoplasm when expressed in
          cultured cells in the absence of steroids. Upon addition
          of 1 μM dexamethasone (Dex) the receptor is translocated
          into the nucleus within 10 min [ 48 ] . When GR-GFP was
          co-expressed with the wild-type Rab24 in NIH3T3 cells, we
          observed normal ligand-dependent translocation of GR-GFP
          into the nucleus when Dex was applied (Fig. 6A). However,
          when GR-GFP was coexpressed with mycRab24(D123I) there
          was a striking perturbation of receptor localization.
          Instead of remaining in the cytoplasm in the absence of
          steroid, nearly all of the GR-GFP was found in the
          cytoplasmic and nuclear inclusion bodies containing the
          Rab24 mutant (Fig. 6A). The latter point is clearly
          illustrated by the overlap of GR-GFP (green) fluorescence
          with rhodamine-IgG staining for mycRab24(D123I) (red) in
          Fig. 6B. The possibility that the inclusions induced by
          mycRab24(D123I) contain aggregated nuclear import
          complexes was further supported by immuno-staining with
          an antibody against importin-β (karyopherin-β), which
          revealed focal concentrations of importin-β in these
          structures (Fig. 7A). However, other proteins such as Ran
          binding protein (Fig. 7B) and Ran GAP (not shown), which
          are recruited to the nuclear import complex through
          interactions with the Ran GTPase, did not appear to be
          present in the inclusion bodies.
        
        
          The C-terminal hypervariable domain of Rab24 is
          required for the formation of inclusions
          To learn more about the structural features of
          Rab24(D123I) that are responsible for triggering the
          formation of nuclear inclusions, we focused on regions of
          the protein that distinguish Rab24 from other members of
          the Rab family. We began by deleting a portion of the
          loop-8 insert, described in the preceding section. Four
          amino acids (ΔEDRR) were removed from both Rab24(wt) and
          Rab24(D123I). Immunofluorescent localization studies
          showed that this modification had no effect on
          distribution of the wild-type protein in the cytoplasm
          (Fig. 8A) and, contrary to expectations, did not
          interfere with the accumulation of the D123I mutant in
          nuclear inclusions (Fig. 8B).
          The second region where the sequence of Rab24 differs
          substantially from other Rab GTPases is the last 38 amino
          acids of the C-terminal tail. This region, commonly
          referred to as the hypervariable domain, plays a major
          role in the subcellular targeting and functional
          specificity of each Rab protein [ 49 ] . In accord with
          this view, replacement of the hypervariable domain of
          Rab24(wt) with the corresponding domain from Rab1B,
          caused the resulting chimera to exhibit a discrete
          juxtanuclear Golgi-like fluorescence pattern typical of
          Rab1B in 293 cells [ 50 51 ] . (Fig. 8C). When the D123I
          substitution was introduced into the Rab24 portion of the
          Rab24/Rab1B chimera, the protein was no longer targeted
          to inclusion bodies (Fig. 8D), but instead exhibited a
          diffuse distribution similar to Rab1B(N121I) and other
          Rabs with mutations in the N(T)KxD motif (see Fig. 2). To
          confirm the importance of the Rab24 hypervariable domain
          for targeting to inclusion bodies, we performed the
          reciprocal experiment, replacing the C-terminal domain of
          Rab1B(wt) or Rab1B(N121I) with the hypervariable domain
          from Rab24. Instead of the usual Rab1B juxtanuclear Golgi
          localization, the Rab1B(wt)/Rab24 chimera showed a
          broader cytoplasmic distribution similar to that of
          Rab24(wt) (Fig. 8E). Most notably, replacement of
          hypervariable domain of Rab1B(N121I) with the
          corresponding C-terminal region from Rab24 caused a major
          change in the localization of the chimera from a
          predominant cytoplasmic distribution typical of
          Rab1B(N121I) (Fig. 2) to a pattern of large intranuclear
          and cytoplasmic inclusion bodies (Fig. 8F).
          To determine whether the hypervariable domain of Rab24
          was sufficient to promote the formation of inclusion
          bodies when fused to a heterologous protein, we prepared
          fusion constructs with enhanced green fluorescent protein
          (EGFP) containing either full-length Rab24(D123I) or just
          the Rab24 C-terminal domain. As shown in Fig. 9A,
          EGFP-Rab24(D123I) accumulated in inclusion bodies similar
          to those described earlier for mycRab24(D123I). In
          contrast, the EGFP fusion protein containing only the
          hypervariable domain of Rab24 exhibited a diffuse
          cytoplasmic and nuclear localization that was essentially
          identical to the pattern observed with EGFP alone (Fig.
          9B& 9C). Therefore, it appears that although the
          C-terminal domain of Rab24 is required to promote its
          incorporation into inclusion bodies, it does so only when
          expressed in the context of a Rab GTPase with a mutation
          in the N(T)KxD nucleotide binding motif.
        
        
          Nuclear inclusions generated by Rab24(D123I)
          contain ubiquitin and Hsp70
          Although the formation of intranuclear inclusions has
          not been observed in previous studies of Ras-related
          GTPases, it is a common feature of several
          neurodegenerative disorders where abnormal proteins
          containing poly-Gln tracts are synthesized as a result of
          CAG codon expansions [ 52 ] . Examples include
          Huntington's disease (huntingtin) [ 53 54 ] ,
          spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) types 1 and 3 (ataxin-1 and
          ataxin-3) [ 55 56 ] and dentatorubral-pallidoluysian
          atrophy (atrophin-1) [ 57 ] . These poly-Gln protein
          aggregates typically contain ubiquitin [ 58 ] and members
          of the Hsp70 chaperone family [ 59 ] , consistent with a
          proposed pathway for cellular clearance of toxic
          misfolded proteins. We noted that the inclusions caused
          by expression of Rab24(D123I) were similar
          morphologically to those described in some of the
          poly-Gln disorders and hypothesized that they might arise
          via a similar pathway. An immunofluorescence study was
          performed to determine whether or not the intranuclear
          Rab24(D123I) aggregates might sequester ubiquitin and
          Hsp70. Both ubiquitin (Fig. 10A) and Hsp70 (Fig. 10B)
          showed substantial overlap with nuclear and cytoplasmic
          aggregates containing mycRab24(D123I). In contrast, the
          aggregates did not contain Hsp90 (Fig. 10C), suggesting
          that the sequestration of Hsp70 was specific.
          To determine whether ubiquitin was conjugated directly
          to Rab24(D123I), it was necessary to solubilize the
          protein aggregates in a high-detergent buffer that was
          incompatible with standard immunoprecipitation methods.
          Therefore, we generated a mammalian expression vector
          encoding a His 
          6 -tagged version of Rab24(D123I) and
          used Ni 2+affinity resin to isolate the expressed protein
          from detergent extracts. When expressed in 293 cells the
          His 
          6 Rab24(D123I) accumulated in
          inclusion bodies that were morphologically identical to
          those formed by the myc-tagged and untagged proteins (not
          shown). When the His 
          6 -tagged protein was extracted from
          the inclusions and subjected to SDS-PAGE, we saw no
          evidence of higher molecular mass forms that would
          correspond to poly-ubiquitinated species, using either
          anti-His 
          6 (Fig. 11A) or anti-Rab24 (not shown)
          antibodies. Moreover, immunoblot analysis of the His 
          6 Rab24(D123I) isolated from cells
          treated with lactacystin (to block degradation of
          poly-ubiquitinated proteins by the 26S proteasome) showed
          no detectable ubiquitin associated with the protein,
          although the same antibody detected multiple
          ubiquitinated polypeptides in the whole-cell lysate (Fig.
          11B). Again, these findings agree with recent studies of
          poly-Gln protein aggregates, which indicate that although
          ubiquitinated proteins are present in the inclusions,
          they are not conjugated directly to the initiating
          poly-Gln polypeptide [ 60 ] .
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Here we have shown that single amino acid substitutions
        ( 
        e.g. , D123I and T120A) in one of the
        conserved guanine nucleotide binding domains of Rab24 can
        cause the protein to accumulate in a massive array of
        nuclear inclusions in mammalian cells. Although members of
        the Ras GTPase superfamily have been studied for many years
        using site-directed mutagenesis approaches, there have been
        no previous reports demonstrating cytopathic effects of
        this kind. In particular, as we have shown in Fig. 2, a
        variety of Rab proteins bearing similar mutations are
        localized in the cytoplasmic compartment.
        It remains unclear whether the nuclear inclusions
        induced by Rab24(D123I) are generated 
        de novo inside the nucleus or instead
        penetrate the nuclear membrane after being assembled in the
        cytoplasmic compartment. Rab24 does not have a classic
        nuclear localization signal sequence, but monomeric
        mycRab24(D123I) is theoretically small enough (24 kDa) to
        diffuse across the nuclear pores [ 61 ] . However, it is
        less likely that this could occur in the case of the larger
        EGFP-Rab24(D123I) fusion construct (50 kDa), which also
        formed abundant intranuclear inclusions (Fig. 9). Our
        preliminary observations indicate that some of the
        intranuclear inclusions containing Rab24(D123I) are
        immunoreactive for lamins, while those outside the nucleus
        are not (Fig. 4B). Moreover, the electron micrographs show
        that nuclei containing clusters of inclusions often have
        regions where the nuclear membrane appears to be
        discontinuous (Fig. 3C). Based on these findings, we
        believe that aggregates formed in the cytoplasm may
        transiently associate with and disrupt the nuclear
        envelope, then enter the nucleus through the resulting
        gaps. Ultimately, the accumulation of nuclear inclusions in
        cells expressing Rab24(D123I) causes a catastrophic
        disruption of the nuclear architecture, although this does
        not appear to be accompanied by classic signs of apoptotic
        cell death such as DNA fragmentation or caspase
        activation.
        The molecular mechanism underlying the formation of
        nuclear inclusions in cells expressing the mutant forms of
        Rab24 remains to be defined. An extensive body of published
        work supports the notion that Rab proteins bearing
        mutations in the N(T)KxD nucleotide binding motif function
        as dominant-suppressors of their endogenous cellular
        counterparts. Our domain-exchange experiments with Rab24
        and Rab1B (Fig. 8) indicate that incorporation of the
        mutant proteins into nuclear inclusions requires the
        specific C-terminal hypervariable targeting domain of
        Rab24. Therefore, one possibility is that the inclusions
        arise as a consequence of disruption of the normal
        physiological function of Rab24. To explore this issue
        further, we attempted to generate another potential
        dominant-negative form of Rab24, predicted to be locked in
        the GDP state. However, when we made the amino acid
        substitution customarily used to generate such Rab mutants
        ( 
        i.e. , S22N), Rab24 unexpectedly
        remained in the GTP state. Therefore, pending further
        investigation, we cannot rule out the alternative
        hypothesis that mutations in the N(T)KxD motif of Rab24,
        combined with features in the C-terminal domain, cause
        Rab24 to misfold in a unique manner, attracting
        non-physiological protein partners that can promote
        aggregation and nuclear localization.
        As a framework for future studies we can envision at
        least three models that could explain the accumulation of
        inclusion bodies in cells expressing Rab24(D123I). Our
        immunofluorescence studies (Fig. 10) suggest that the
        inclusions are complex protein assemblies containing Hsp70
        and ubiquitin. Therefore, the first possibility is that the
        presence of Hsp70 and ubiquitin reflects a failed attempt
        by the cell to eliminate misfolded protein aggregates via
        the proteasome pathway. Indeed, a similar explanation has
        been invoked to explain the presence of Hsp70 and ubiquitin
        in nuclear aggregates observed in cells expressing abnormal
        gene products with poly-Gln tracts, such as huntingtin [ 54
        ] and ataxin-1 [ 59 ] . Based on reports that
        overexpression of chaperones [ 59 62 ] or a
        dominant-negative form of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme
        [ 63 ] can suppress the formation of poly-Gln protein
        aggregates, Kaytor and Warren [ 58 ] proposed a three-stage
        model wherein (i) molecular chaperones initially associate
        with the misfolded protein, (ii) failure to diminish the
        pool of misfolded protein leads to aggregation and
        ubiquitination and (iii) inefficient degradation of the
        aggregate by the proteasome is manifested by the
        accumulation of inclusion bodies. Although this model
        implies that the misfolded poly-Gln protein might be the
        primary substrate for ubiquitination, a recent study by
        Suhr 
        et al . [ 60 ] suggests that this may
        not always be the case. Specifically, they found that when
        aggregates from 293 cells expressing poly-Gln proteins were
        dissociated, the ubiquitin polymers were not conjugated
        directly to the poly-Gln protein or the sequestered
        Hsp70.
        An alternative mechanism for the formation of inclusion
        bodies in protein conformation disorders is suggested by a
        recent study showing that clearance of poly-Gln and
        poly-Ala inclusions is accelerated by compounds like
        rapamycin, which stimulate protein degradation by autophagy
        [ 64 ] . Along similar lines, the work of Kegel 
        et al . [ 65 ] hints that poly-Gln
        huntingtin may be degraded mainly in autophagic vacuoles
        containing lysosomal proteases. Interestingly, Rab24 has
        been implicated as a possible mediator of autophagy in a
        recent study where wild-type GFP-Rab24 was observed to
        accumulate on large autophagic vacuoles in cells subjected
        to amino acid starvation [ 43 ] . Thus, if Rab24(D123I)
        functions as a true dominant suppressor of endogenous
        Rab24, the inclusions observed in the present study may
        consist of misfolded endogenous proteins that cannot be
        degraded because basal activity of the
        autophagosome-lysosome pathway is blocked.
        Although the two preceding models may explain the
        presence of Hsp70 and ubiquitin in the Rab24(D123I)-induced
        aggregates, the incorporation of glucocorticoid receptor
        (Fig. 6) and importin-β (Fig. 7) may point to a third
        distinct scenario. Aside from its well-characterized role
        in protein folding [ 66 ] , Hsp70 is known to associate
        with the GR in the cytoplasm, where it promotes formation
        of a heterocomplex between the inactive GR and Hsp90 [ 67 ]
        . In addition, Hsp70 becomes concentrated in the nucleus
        when cells are exposed to environmental stress [ 68 ] . Of
        particular note, the nuclear accumulation of the Hsp70,
        Ssa4p, in response to nutrient deprivation in yeast appears
        to occur by a novel mechanism that involves its direct
        interaction with Mmd5p, a member of the importin-β family [
        69 ] . A role for Rab24 in nuclear trafficking would be
        unanticipated, since the only GTPase known to function in
        nuclear import/export (Ran) is structurally distinct from
        the Rab subgroup of the Ras superfamily [ 70 71 ] .
        Nevertheless, we can speculate that if Rab24 participates
        in a stress-induced pathway for nuclear import of Hsp70 in
        mammalian cells, the constitutive overexpression of
        Rab24(D123I) might stimulate aberrant accumulation of
        Hsp70/importin-β aggregates at the nuclear pore complex.
        This might ultimately result in disruption of the nuclear
        envelope and penetration of the aggregates into the
        nucleus. If the Hsp70 in these aggregates retains the
        capacity to bind GR, this could account for the
        sequestration of nascent GR in these structures.
        It is well established that mutations affecting the
        guanine nucleotide state of Ras are associated with
        neoplastic transformation of mammalian cells [ 35 72 73 ] .
        However, the potential role of Rab mutations in disease is
        just beginning to be explored. Menasche 
        et al . [ 74 ] found mutations in the
        Rab27A gene in 16 patients with Griscelli's syndrome, an
        autosomal recessive disorder characterized by defects in
        skin pigmentation and T-lymphocyte and macrophage
        activation. While several of the mutations were deletions,
        a few were missense mutations that changed single amino
        acids in conserved regions of the Rab structure. Mutations
        in the Rab27A gene have also been detected in mice with the
        coat color mutation 
        ashen , which is regarded as a model
        for Griscelli's syndrome [ 75 76 ] . Rab24 can be detected
        in many tissues and cell lines [ 24 25 ] , but expression
        appears to be highest in neuronal cells [ 25 ] . At present
        there are no available data specifically linking Rab24
        mutations to human disease. However, there are many case
        reports describing patients with progressive
        neurodegenerative disorders of unknown etiology,
        collectively referred to as neuronal intranuclear inclusion
        disease [ 77 ] . While these may consist mainly of
        unidentified poly-Gln or poly-Ala disorders, the present
        study raises the possibility that some forms of this
        disease may arise through unexpected mechanisms, perhaps
        involving mutations in Rab24 or other poorly characterized
        members of the Rab GTPase family that mediate trafficking
        of misfolded proteins within autophagosomes and
        lysosomes.
      
      
        Conclusions
        Previous studies have shown that Rab24 exhibits several
        unusual characteristics that distinguish it from other
        members of the Rab GTPase family [ 25 ] . The studies
        described in this report demonstrate that putative
        dominant-negative mutant forms of Rab24, bearing single
        amino acid substitutions in the conserved N(T)KxD
        nucleotide binding motif ( 
        e.g. , D123I and T120A), are targeted
        to numerous inclusion bodies that disrupt the nuclear
        envelope and enter the nuclear compartment. The inclusions
        bear a superficial resemblance to those described in some
        of the polyglutamine disorders, and appear to sequester
        Hsp70, ubiquitin, importin-β, and glucocorticoid receptor.
        Studies of Rab24/Rab1B chimeras indicate that the unusual
        cytopathic effects induced by the D123I mutant require
        sequence elements within the Rab24 C-terminal hypervariable
        targeting domain. Similar mutations in the N(T)KxD motif of
        other Rab proteins typically yield soluble cytoplasmic
        proteins. Confirmatory studies with other potential
        dominant-negative mutants, such as those bearing
        substitutions at the position cognate to Ras S17, were not
        possible with Rab24, because such mutants remained in the
        GTP state. The present results further highlight the unique
        nature of Rab24 and raise the possibility that it may
        function in autophagic degradation of misfolded proteins,
        or perhaps play an unanticipated role in nuclear protein
        trafficking or maintenance/assembly of the nuclear
        envelope.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Expression constructs
          The cDNA encoding Rab24 was obtained by PCR
          amplification from first strand cDNA template
          reverse-transcribed from mouse brain mRNA, using 
          Taq DNA polymerase (Perkin Elmer).
          Oligonucleotide primers for the PCR reaction were based
          on the published sequence of murine Rab24 [ 24 ] . Kpn1
          and BamH1 restriction sites were added to the 5' and 3'
          primers respectively, to facilitate cloning of the PCR
          product in frame with a 5' sequence cassette encoding a
          myc epitope (EQKLISEEDL), previously introduced into the
          pCMV5 expression vector [ 78 ] . The Rab24 cDNA was
          altered by overlap-extension PCR [ 79 ] , using
          appropriate mutator oligonucleotides and 
          Pfu DNA polymerase (Stratagene
          Inc., La Jolla, CA), so as to introduce amino acid
          substitutions at D123 (D123I), T120 (T120A), S22 (S22N),
          S67 (S67Q), and a deletion of residues 127 through 130
          (ΔEDRR). The cDNA encoding human Rab11 was obtained by
          PCR amplification from first strand cDNA template,
          reverse-transcribed from Hela cell mRNA. This sequence
          was cloned into pCMV5, in-frame with a 5' myc epitope tag
          sequence, and altered to encode the N124I substitution as
          stated above for Rab24. Other pCMV5 expression vectors
          encoding Rab1B(N121I) [ 28 ] , Rab6(N126I) and
          Rab8(N121I) [ 32 ] have been described in the indicated
          references. pCMV5 expression vectors containing 
          Rab24 and 
          Rab1B were engineered by
          overlap-extension PCR to encode the following chimeric
          proteins: Rab24/Rab1B, consisting of residues 1-165 of
          Rab24 [ 24 ] fused to residues 163-201 from Rab1B [ 80 ]
          ; Rab24(D123I)/Rab1B, consisting of residues 1-165 of
          Rab24 with the D123I substitution, fused to residues
          163-201 of Rab1B; Rab1B/Rab24, consisting of residues
          1-162 of Rab1B fused to residues 166-203 of Rab24; and
          Rab1B(N121I)/Rab24, consisting of residues 1-162 of Rab1B
          with the N121I substitution, fused to residues 166-203 of
          Rab24. To generate Rab24 fusions with Enhanced Green
          Fluorescent Protein (EGFP), cDNAs encoding full-length
          Rab24(wt) or Rab24(D123I), or the Rab24 C-terminal
          hypervariable domain (residues 166-203) were generated
          with flanking 
          KpnI and 
          BamHI sites and subcloned into
          pEGFP-C1 (Clontech Inc., Palo Alto, CA) so that the Rab
          inserts were in-frame with a 5' EGFP coding sequence. The
          sequences of all constructs were verified by automated
          DNA sequencing using a Beckman CEQ2000 system.
        
        
          Cell culture and transfection
          Human embryonal kidney (HEK) cells (line 293) and NIH
          3T3 mouse fibroblasts were obtained from American Type
          Culture Collection (Rockville, MD) and were maintained at
          37°C in a 5% CO 
          2 atmosphere in Dulbecco's modified
          Eagle's medium containing 10% (v/v) fetal bovine serum.
          On the day before transfection, cells were plated in 6 cm
          diameter dishes at 5 × 10 5cells/dish or in 10 cm
          diameter dishes at 2 × 10 6cells/dish. Cells were
          transfected with the indicated expression vectors, using
          Lipofectamine Plus reagent (Life Technologies, Inc.,
          Rockville, MD) for 293 cells or Superfect reagent
          (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) for 3T3 cells, according to the
          protocols recommended by the manufacturers.
        
        
          Subcellular distribution of Rab24
          To determine the subcellular distribution of
          mycRab24(wt) and mycRab24(D123I), 293 cells were plated
          in 10 cm dishes and transfected with the indicated
          expression vectors. After 24 h, the cells were harvested
          in PBS, collected by centrifugation, and lysed in 5
          volumes of 40 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, containing complete
          mini-EDTA-free protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma, St.
          Louis, MO). Soluble and particulate fractions were
          obtained by centrifuging the cell lysate at 100,000 × g
          for 60 min at 4°C. One quarter of each fraction was
          subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis using the
          9E10 monoclonal antibody against the myc epitope
          (Oncogene Research Products, Cambridge, MA), followed by
          HRP-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG and ECL detection
          reagent (Amersham Corp, Arlington Hts., IL) as described
          previously [ 50 81 ] . To determine the detergent
          solubility of the Rab24(D123I) mutant, transfected cells
          from a 10 cm culture dish were homogenized in 0.2 ml of
          100 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, containing 0.5% Nonidet P-40,
          0.5% sodium deoxycholate, 0.1% SDS, and 2 mM EDTA.
          Samples were partitioned into soluble and particulate
          components and the latter were subjected to SDS-PAGE and
          immunoblot analysis.
        
        
          Rab24 guanine nucleotide state
          To assess the guanine nucleotide state of selected
          mycRab24 proteins, cells were transfected with the
          indicated constructs and incubated with
          32P-orthophosphate for 5 h, starting 24 h after
          transfection. Radiolabeled mycRab24 was
          immunoprecipitated and the 32P-labeled guanine
          nucleotides eluted from the protein were subjected to
          thin-layer chromatography to resolve GDP and GTP.
          Aliquots of the immunoprecipitated protein were also
          subjected to immunoblot analysis with antibody against
          the myc epitope, so that the amount of bound nucleotide
          could be related to the amount of protein. A detailed
          description of these procedures has been published
          previously [ 25 ] .
        
        
          Immunofluorescence microscopy
          HEK293 cells or NIH3T3 cells were seeded on
          laminin-coated coverslips in 60 mm dishes and transfected
          as described above. Cells were fixed for 15 min in 3%
          (w/v) paraformaldehyde, rinsed for 5 min with 0.05 M NH 
          4 Cl 
          2 , permeabilized for 2 min with 0.1%
          (v/v) TritonX-100, and blocked for 30 min with 0.1% (w/v)
          BSA. All solutions were prepared in PBS. To detect the
          expressed myc-tagged Rab proteins, cells were incubated
          for 60 min with either the 9E10 mouse monoclonal antibody
          against the myc epitope or a rabbit polyclonal antibody
          against the same epitope (Upstate Biotechnology, Lake
          Placid, NY). In some experiments nuclei were visualized
          by counter-staining with 4',6'-diamidino-2-phenylindole
          (DAPI) (2 μg/ml) (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR). Other
          monoclonal antibodies used in combination with the rabbit
          anti-myc antibody were: anti-lamin A + B and
          anti-ubiquitin (Zymed Laboratories, South San Francisco,
          CA), anti-Hsp70 and anti-Hsp90 (Stressgen, Inc.,
          Victoria, BC, Canada), anti-GFP (Clontech, Inc. Palo
          Alto, CA), anti-karyopherin β and anti-Ran binding
          protein (Transduction Laboratories, Lexington, KY).
          Depending on the combination of primary antibodies, cells
          were incubated for 60 min with goat anti-mouse (GAM) or
          goat anti-rabbit (GAR) IgG's conjugated with either FITC
          or rhodamine (Sigma Chemical Co., Louis, MO).
          Photomicrographs were taken with a Nikon Eclipse 800
          fluorescence microscope equipped with a digital camera
          and ImagePro software (Media Cybernetics, Silver Spring,
          MD). In some cases, gray scale images were pseudo-colored
          to correspond to the red (Rhodamine), green (FITC) or
          blue (DAPI) fluorescence, and the digital images were
          merged.
        
        
          Nuclear translocation of glucocorticoid
          receptor
          The expression vector pK7-GR-GFP [ 48 ] , which
          encodes a fusion of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) with
          green fluorescent protein (GFP), was provided by Dr. Ian
          Macara, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, USA. NIH
          3T3 cells were seeded on glass coverslips in DMEM
          containing 10% charcoal-stripped FCS, without phenol red.
          Twenty four hours after transfection, the cells were
          changed to fresh medium with or without 1 μM
          dexamethasone (Dex). All cells were fixed for
          immunofluorescence microscopy 10 min after addition of
          Dex. The localization of GR-GFP was determined in
          comparison to mycRab24, detected with anti-myc monoclonal
          antibody and rhodamine-conjugated GAM-IgG, as described
          above.
        
        
          Electron microscopy
          Transfected cells were washed twice with PBS and
          scraped from the dish using a rubber policeman. The
          resulting cell suspensions were centrifuged in Eppendorf
          ®tubes and cell pellets were fixed for 5 min at room
          temperature using a 1% glutaraldehyde in 0.2M sodium
          cacodylate, pH 7.2. Fixed cell pellets were washed twice
          with cacodylate buffer and twice with 0.5 M ammonium
          chloride. Each sample was dehydrated via a graded series
          of chilled ethanol solutions and infiltrated and embedded
          in LR White ®Embedding media (London Resin Co., Ltd.,
          Berkshire, England), also at 2°C. Polymerized cell blocks
          were ultra-thin sectioned with a Reichert Ultracut S
          ultramicrotome (Leica Microsystems, Wien, Austria) and
          sections collected on gold 200-mesh electron microscopy
          support grids. Sections were incubated with PBS for 5
          min, then blocked in a solution of 10% fish gelatin in
          PBS for 15 minutes. Reaction with the 9E10 mouse anti-myc
          antibody (1:100 dilution in PBS) was carried out for 2 h,
          followed by 6 washes with PBS. Sections were then
          incubated for 1 h with GAM IgG conjugated with 10 nm
          colloidal gold (Ted Pella, Inc., Redding, CA), followed
          by 3 changes of PBS. The samples were post-fixed with 1%
          glutaraldehyde and stained with uranyl acetate and lead
          citrate. They were then blot-dried and examined with a
          Philips CM 10 transmission electron microscope for
          localization of the colloidal gold probe.
        
        
          Solubilization of Rab24(D123I) from inclusions and
          assay for ubiquitination
          The cDNAs encoding Rab24(wt) and Rab24(D123I) were
          subcloned into a pCMV5 vector that had been modified by
          PCR to encode an in-frame polyhistidine tag (His 
          6 ) at the amino-terminus of the Rab
          protein. HEK 293 cells grown in 10 cm diameter dishes
          were transfected with either pCMV5- 
          His 
          6 
          Rab24 or pCMV5- 
          His 
          6 
          Rab24(D123I) as described earlier.
          20 μM lactacystin (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) was added to the
          medium 18 h after transfection and cells were incubated
          with the proteasome inhibitor for 4 h prior to harvest.
          Cells were scraped from the dish, collected by
          centrifugation, and homogenized in 0.25 ml Buffer A: 0.15
          M NaCl, 20 mM MgCl 
          2 , 0.05% (w/v) SDS, 20 mM HEPES, pH
          7.4, supplemented with protease inhibitor cocktail. The
          cell lysate was mixed with 0.25 ml of Buffer B (Buffer A
          containing 1% NP-40 and 1% deoxycholate) and the
          insoluble material was removed by centrifugation at
          100,000 × g for 30 min. The supernatant fraction was
          diluted 1:1 with Buffer C (Buffer A containing 0.5% NP-40
          and 0.5% deoxycholate, with no SDS) and loaded on to a
          Ni-NTA spin column (Qiagen). The column was washed with
          Buffer D (0.15 M NaCl, 20 mM MgCl 
          2 , 0.025% SDS, 0.5% deoxycholate,
          0.5% NP-40, 20 mM HEPES, pH 7.4) and the His 
          6 -tagged protein was eluted with
          Buffer D containing 0.25 M imidazole. Samples of the
          eluted protein were subjected to SDS-PAGE and immunoblot
          analysis as described previously, using a polyclonal
          antibody against Rab24 [ 25 ] , or monoclonal antibodies
          against the His 
          6 -tag (Sigma) or ubiquitin (Zymed
          Laboratories).
        
        
          Cell death assay
          Cells were transfected with pCMV5 expression vectors
          encoding mycRab24(D123I) as described earlier. DNA
          fragmentation was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl
          transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)
          assay, using fluorescein-12-dUTP, according to the
          instructions supplied by the manufacturer (Promega Corp.,
          Madison, WI). Following the TUNEL reaction, the cells
          were incubated with monoclonal anti-myc antibody and
          Rhodamine-conjugated GAM IgG to detect the expressed Rab
          protein. Fluorescence microscopy was used to determine
          the number of transfected cells that were TUNEL-positive,
          compared to non-transfected cells in the same culture. As
          a positive control for apoptosis, parallel cultures were
          treated for 24 h with 1 μM staurosporine.
        
      
      
        Authors' contributions
        W.A.M. drafted the manuscript and supervised the
        studies. G.S. generated the Rab24 constructs and carried
        out the immunofluorescent and western blot studies. W.G.
        and E.C. performed the immunogold electron microscopy. B.A.
        performed the TUNEL assays.
      
    
  
