
  
    
      
        Background
        Two known enzymes catabolize the essential amino acid
        tryptophan in mammals. Tryptophan 2, 3 dioxygenase (TDO) is
        expressed predominantly in hepatic tissues and was the
        first inducible enzyme system discovered in mammals [ 1].
        It controls serum tryptophan homeostasis and is induced
        following ingestion of tryptophan. A second enzyme, IDO, is
        distinguished from TDO by its expression pattern, substrate
        specificity and inducibility. IDO is expressed in a variety
        of non-hepatic tissues, including placenta, lung, gut and
        epididymis [ 2, 3, 4]. Except for the last named tissue
        where IDO is expressed constitutively, IDO is inducible by
        inflammatory mediators, including interferons. In addition,
        IDO catalyzes the breakdown of a variety of compounds which
        contain an indole ring, including D-tryptophan and
        serotonin, marking another difference from TDO, which is
        specific for L-tryptophan. Curiously, it appears as if
        tryptophan itself cannot induce IDO synthesis [ 5]. IDO is
        also suggested to be the evolutionary ancestor of certain
        novel myoglobins which occur in molluscs, marking IDO as an
        evolutionarily primitive enzyme [ 6].
        IDO is known to be expressed in cells infected with
        intracellular pathogens such as 
        Toxoplasma and 
        Chlamydia species and also by viruses
        [ 7, 8, 9, 10]. In the case of 
        Toxoplasma and 
        Chlamydia it has been proposed that
        IDO induction is a cellular defense mechanism, designed to
        limit the proliferation of the invading pathogen by
        depleting the essential amino acid tryptophan. IDO
        expressed in monocyte derived macrophages has also been
        found to inhibit the growth of extracellular bacteria such
        as group B streptococci [ 11], and is also induced in
        tumors taken from cancer patients [ 12]. In all of these
        systems the proximal inducer of IDO activity is
        interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Response elements for this cytokine
        have been identified in the human IDO promoter and have
        been shown to be essential for IFN-γ induction of reporter
        gene expression 
        in vitro [ 13, 14, 15].
        The unusual tissue distribution of IDO suggests that
        combating infection is not its only function. Our interest
        in IDO arose when we observed that tryptophan depletion was
        responsible for macrophage-induced inhibition of T cell
        proliferation 
        in vitro [ 16]. Furthermore, we
        reported that a pharmacologic inhibitor of IDO, 1-methyl
        tryptophan, induced maternal rejection of allogeneic but
        not syngeneic murine fetuses [ 17]. As IDO is strongly
        expressed at the maternal-fetal interface in pregnant mice
        and women, we have suggested that IDO plays a role in fetal
        defense against the maternal immune system and could
        represent a novel means of immunoregulation. The apparently
        diverse functions and tissue distribution of IDO may have
        as a common theme the fact that tryptophan is the rarest
        essential amino acid and could be the target for cellular
        regulatory mechanisms. If so, tryptophan concentrations in
        cellular microenvironments might play a critical role in
        modulating various cellular processes in a way that cannot
        be achieved by the hepatic enzyme TDO which regulates
        systemic tryptophan concentrations.
        The IDO promoter contains a diverse collection of motifs
        together with the IFN-γ response elements. These include
        motifs for transcription factors that bind to collagenase
        and elastase genes and motifs for the transcription factor
        MEP-1, which regulates transcription from the 
        stromelysin-1 (MMP-3) and 
        metallothionein genes [ 18, 19].
        Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are responsible for
        modification of the extracellular matrix and are involved
        in wound healing, tumorigenesis, pregnancy and
        inflammation. In general, they regulate how cells interact
        with each other and with the extra-cellular matrix.
        Evidence for a tryptophan-reversible inhibition of MMP
        expression by IFN-γ has previously been presented [ 20,
        21], although the exact mechanism is unclear. Therefore we
        decided to directly test whether IDO plays a role in
        controlling interactions with other cells and also the
        surrounding extracellular environment.
        We have identified cells expressing IDO 
        in vitro and used IDO antisense
        constructs to inhibit this expression. In addition, we have
        constitutively overexpressed IDO in adherent and
        non-adherent cell lines 
        in vitro. Our results demonstrate
        that tryptophan catabolism has significant effects on cell
        adhesion and regulates the activity and expression of
        cyclooxygenases 1 and 2 (COX-1 and -2).
      
      
        Results
        
          Constitutive overexpression of IDO alters cell
          adhesion
          To determine whether IDO plays a role in regulating
          cell adhesion, we expressed a full-length IDO cDNA in
          cell lines 
          in vitro . We transfected the
          murine macrophage cell line RAW 264.7 with a construct in
          which IDO was expressed under the control of the murine
          MHC Class II promoter (Fig 1A). IDO-transfected RAW cell
          clones, which expressed IDO under the control of the MHC
          Class II promoter, were characterized for IDO expression.
          We selected four clones with varying capacities for IDO
          expression and tryptophan depletion from culture medium
          (Fig 1B,C,D,E). Following 48 hours in culture, clones 22
          and 11 depleted tryptophan to a greater extent than
          clones 6 and 8 or vector only control, consistent with
          the greater vector copy number of these clones. However,
          none of the clones depleted a substantial proportion of
          the tryptophan present in medium even with longer
          incubation times. A common feature of the tryptophan
          depleting clones was their tendency to form macroscopic
          foci, which were visible to the naked eye (Fig 2,A,B,C).
          At a certain point in focus growth, multicellular
          aggregates of RAW cells would break off from the focus
          and could be seen floating in suspension in the tissue
          culture medium. Wild type RAW cells or RAW cells
          transfected with vector alone and, to a lesser extent,
          clones 6 and 8 demonstrated a reduced ability to form
          macroscopic foci.
          To determine if this phenomenon was unique to RAW
          cells, we also transfected the MC57 murine fibrosarcoma
          cell line [ 22] which grows as a monolayer. MC 57 cells
          are fibroblastic in appearance and disperse across the
          surface of a tissue culture dish in a uniform manner.
          Transfection of a full length, constitutively expressed
          IDO cDNA into MC57 cells in the pcDNA3 expression vector,
          resulted in MC57 cells developing a more rounded
          phenotype. Furthermore, cells grew as multicellular foci,
          in a confined area, similar to RAW cells, although the
          foci did not grow to as large a size before detaching
          from the plate (Fig 2D,E). The murine monocytic cell line
          P388 was also transfected and expressed IDO. It likewise
          exhibited a change in morphology similar to that
          described above and clones expressing IDO often changed
          from non-attached suspension cultures to adherent
          cultures which resembled RAW cells(not shown).
          IDO-expressing clones were also slower to re-attach to
          tissue culture dishes following sub-culture and could be
          seen floating as multicellular aggregates. To quantitate
          the change in cell adhesion in IDO-transfected RAW cells,
          we performed binding studies to tissue culture plates
          coated with various extra-cellular matrices, including
          collagen, laminin, matrigel, and fibronectin. Neither
          vector-only controls nor IDO-expressing cells adhered
          significantly to laminin or matrigel coated plates in a
          45 minute assay period (not shown) and both controls and
          IDO-expressing cells adhered strongly and to similar
          extents to fibronectin coated plates (Fig 3A). However,
          there was a substantial difference in adhesion to
          collagen-coated plates. Although neither sample adhered
          to collagen to the same extent as to fibronectin, vector
          only controls adhered more strongly than IDO-expressing
          clone 11 (Fig 3B).
        
        
          IDO expression is induced during cell attachment to
          growth substrates
          To determine if IDO normally plays a role during the
          course of cell adhesion, we detached log phase, wild type
          RAW cells from their culture flasks by scraping, reseeded
          them into fresh medium and assayed for IDO expression at
          subsequent time points. Log phase cells do not express
          IDO at levels detectable by standard RT-PCR methods.
          However, in cells detached from their normal growth
          substrate, IDO expression was already induced by 5 hours
          following reseeding into fresh tissue culture dishes and
          expression was detected until 48 hours (Fig 4A). Onset of
          expression coincided with the time when the majority of
          cells had begun to adhere to the plate.
          To determine if IDO expression was restricted to cell
          interactions with standard tissue culture substrates and
          to further explore the possibility that IDO altered
          inter-cellular adhesiveness, we studied the murine
          embryonic carcinoma cell line P19. This cell has been
          characterized extensively and differentiates into
          skeletal and cardiac muscle or neuronal cells, depending
          on whether it is treated with DMSO or retinoic acid (RA)
          respectively [ 23, 24, 25]. Differentiation is dependent
          on an initial, 3-5 day incubation as multicellular
          aggregates in suspension culture, in the presence of
          drug, followed by a similar period growing as monolayer
          adherent cells in the absence of drug. Mature
          differentiated cells begin to appear during this
          subsequent growth period in the absence of drug.
          IDO expression was detected when P19 cells were
          reseeded into bacterial petri dishes as suspension
          cultures and allowed to form aggregates. IDO expression
          was observed within 12 hours of seeding into suspension
          with DMSO and peaked around 48-54 hours. (Fig 4B). Thus,
          removing cells from their normal growth substrate and
          reseeding into fresh medium induced a burst of IDO
          expression irrespective of whether cells reassociated
          with tissue culture substrate or other cells. Aggregating
          cells in the presence of 10 -6M RA, which induces
          neuronal differentiation also induced a transient burst
          of IDO transcription but the period was shorter and the
          peak level observed was lower than that observed with
          DMSO.
          To determine if IDO expression was related to the
          removal of cells from their normal growth substrate or
          the process of reattachment to new substrate, we
          trypsinized P19 cells and reseeded them as aggregates in
          suspension in the presence of various concentrations of
          EGTA. EGTA chelates essential Ca 2+required by cadherin
          molecules and inhibits cell adhesion. We observed a
          concentration dependent decrease in IDO expression in
          EGTA treated samples 24 hours after seeding, which
          paralleled a corresponding decrease in cell aggregation
          (Fig 4C). Therefore, IDO expression appeared to be
          induced by reattachment, rather than detachment from a
          previous substrate. Thus, IDO is thus expressed
          endogenously in various cell types and is induced during
          cell attachment to growth substrates.
        
        
          Inhibition of endogenous IDO expression disrupts
          P19 cell adhesion
          To examine the role of IDO expression in P19 cells, we
          transfected P19 cells with a DNA construct which
          contained a 740 bp fragment of murine IDO cDNA in the
          antisense orientation, under the control of the
          constitutively active CMV promoter in the pcDNA-3
          mammalian expression vector. As control, the IDO gene
          fragment was cloned in a sense orientation. To confirm
          that transfected, G418 resistant P19 cells expressed IDO
          antisense transcripts, we isolated total RNA from G418
          resistant clones, reverse transcribed it into cDNA using
          a sense primer then PCR amplified the cDNA. Three
          antisense-transfected clones, which expressed
          progressively greater amounts of IDO antisense RNA were
          selected for further analysis together with a sense
          control (Fig 4D). The ability of the sense and antisense
          transfectants to deplete tryptophan from culture medium
          was determined following 48 hours in culture. IDO sense
          transfected P19 cells depleted 10% of available culture
          tryptophan (not shown) while IDO antisense transfected
          P19 clones which expressed high levels of antisense
          (clones D3 and E6) depleted essentially no tryptophan
          from the medium. Clone C2, which expressed low levels of
          IDO antisense, depleted similar levels of tryptophan to
          the sense control. Therefore, the burst of IDO
          expression, which takes place in cells during
          reattachment does not result in substantial tryptophan
          depletion from culture medium
          IDO antisense-transfected clones D3 and E6 exhibited a
          different phenotype compared to untransfected and sense
          transfected P19 cells (Fig 5A,B,C). IDO antisense
          expressing clones developed a rounded appearance with a
          more scattered morphology and apparent loss of cell
          interaction instead of the usual, adherent P19 phenotype.
          The degree to which this phenotype manifested, correlated
          with the extent of IDO antisense expression, i.e. it was
          prominent in clone E6 and D3 while clone C2 was
          indistinguishable from sense-transfected controls.
          However growth rates were largely unaltered.
          IDO-antisense and sense transfectants were aggregated in
          1% DMSO and cell aggregates were visualized by phase
          contrast microscopy. Sense or untransfected P19 cells
          aggregated normally as tightly packed spheroid bodies. In
          contrast, antisense transfectants formed aggregates,
          which exhibited markedly different morphologies and
          differed from sense-transfected aggregates in two
          principal respects; shape and size (Fig 5D,E,F). At 30
          hours after seeding suspension cultures, cells formed
          irregular shaped, non-spherical aggregates that were less
          tightly packed than control aggregates. Antisense clone
          E6 (shown in Fig. 5F) produced aggregates which were only
          loosely packed and a substantial number of cells which
          did not package into any form of aggregate while
          antisense clone D3 formed aggregates more diverse in
          shape than the uniformly spherical controls but less
          diverse than clone E6. Clone C2 produced aggregates
          similar to sense transfected controls (not shown).
          To quantitate and compare the size difference between
          sense and antisense-transfected aggregates we
          photographed sense and antisense clone 5 aggregates and
          calculated the area of each aggregate individually (Fig.
          5G). Antisense aggregates were small, predominantly in
          the 0.2-0.4 sq. inch size range, whereas control
          aggregate sizes were spread over a much broader range.
          The mean size of antisense-transfected aggregates was
          0.31 sq. inches, while sense transfected controls had a
          mean of 0.69 sq. inches (p < 0.0001). The effect of
          IDO inhibition on cell adhesion was demonstrated by
          performing cell migration assays. P19 cells were seeded
          into porous tissue culture inserts placed in a 24 well
          tissue culture plate and cell migration to the lower
          chamber in the absence of any stimulus was determined.
          Approximately 12% of clone E6 cells migrated to the lower
          chamber 18 hours after seeding into the upper chamber
          (Fig. 5H). In contrast, less than1% of control cells had
          migrated in the same period. Clones C2 and D3 produced
          intermediate levels of migration. When inserts were
          coated with Matrigel, no significant migration was seen
          in either antisense or sense transfectants, indicating
          that cell motility could be inhibited by supplying an
          extracellular matrix.
        
        
          IDO axpression alters metalloproteinase
          expression
          The altered adhesion of IDO-expressing RAW cells to
          collagen suggested that IDO might induce alterations in
          enzymes involved in modifying the extracellular matrix.
          Therefore, we investigated whether inhibition of IDO
          expression in the P19 
          in vitro aggregation system and the
          constitutive overexpression of IDO in RAW cells had any
          effect on MMP expression. We allowed the sense and
          three-antisense expressing clones of P19 to aggregate in
          1%. DMSO for 24 hours, before harvesting total RNA and
          determining expression of various MMP genes, including 
          stromelysins 1 (MMP-3), 
          2 (MMP-10) and 
          3 (MMP-11), 
          collagenases I (MMP-1) and 
          IV (MMP-2) and 
          meltrins α (ADAM-12) and β
          (ADAM-19). 
          Meltrin α is expressed 
          in vivo during development in
          condensed mesenchymal cells that give rise to skeletal
          muscle while meltrin β is expressed in craniofacial and
          dorsal root ganglia where neuronal lineages differentiate
          [ 26]. Expression of 
          stromelysin s- 
          1 and 
          3 and 
          meltrin α , was increased in
          antisense-expressing aggregates, relative to the sense
          control (Fig 6A). Furthermore, there was a progressive
          increase in the expression level of these three protease
          genes, which correlated with the amount of IDO antisense
          expression. In contrast, the expression of 
          meltri n-β and 
          stromelysi n- 
          2 was similar in all samples and
          expression of 
          collagenase I or 
          IV was undetectable in either sense
          or antisense-expressing aggregates (not shown). Thus,
          inhibition of IDO gene expression correlated with
          increased expression of some but not all MMP genes in P19
          cells undergoing aggregation. Furthermore, increased MMP
          expression coincided with decreased ability of P19 cells
          to aggregate in suspension culture. To determine whether
          IDO-expressing RAW cells also showed unusual MMP
          expression we tested the IDO-expressing RAW cell clones
          for the same group of MMPs as P19 cells. Expression of
          all MMPs was undetectable except for collagenase I. This
          showed significant expression in vector-only controls but
          little or no expression in IDO-expressing clones. All
          IDO-expressing clones demonstrated reduced expression
          with no correlation to the level of IDO expression (Fig
          6B). Pharmacological inhibition of MMP activity in P19
          cells using the broad spectrum, hydroxamic acid-based MMP
          inhibitor GM 6001 at concentrations ranging from 1-30 μM,
          resulted in partial reversal of the poor aggregation
          shown by IDO-AS expressing cells, with a maximal effect
          shown at 20 μM, indicating that changes in MMP expression
          were responsible, at least in part for altered cell
          adhesion.
        
        
          IDO regulates prostaglandin synthesis
          To understand the mechanism of IDO induced alterations
          in cell adhesion and MMP expression, we attempted to
          reverse IDO effects on cell adhesion. As previously
          mentioned, tryptophan is not significantly depleted in
          culture medium of RAW cells overexpressing IDO,
          suggesting that tryptophan deprivation is not the cause
          of the IDO effect. Consistent with this, adding back
          tryptophan to IDO-expressing RAW cells did not reverse
          the growth of macroscopic foci. As tryptophan is not the
          only substrate for IDO, we also investigated whether
          adding serotonin would overcome the effects of IDO
          expression. There was a similar lack of effect of this
          compound. This suggested that depletion or reduction of
          an IDO substrate was probably not responsible for the
          effects described here. An alternative possibility was
          that a biologically active downstream catabolite of IDO
          could be the cause. Therefore, we tested the tryptophan
          catabolites, picolinic acid and quinolinic acid to see if
          they could reproduce the effects of IDO overexpression.
          Picolinic acid (1-6 mM) produced morphological changes in
          both MC57 and RAW cells and also substantial reductions
          in growth rate but did not mimic the effects of IDO
          expression. In particular, at a concentration of 2 mM,
          picolinic acid induced a more flattened phenotype. At
          concentrations above 6 mM, picolinic acid-induced
          apoptosis was observed. Quinolinic acid was essentially
          without effect at concentrations up to 10 mM. Therefore,
          the exact mode of action of IDO therefore remains to be
          determined.
          Despite the uncertainty about the proximal mediator of
          IDO's effect, it is known that alterations in cell
          adhesion and metalloproteinase activity are often
          associated with changes in prostaglandin synthesis [ 27,
          28, 29, 30]. Therefore, we analyzed the spectrum of PGs
          produced by IDO-expressing RAW cells using thin layer
          chromatography. PG D 
          2 was the major product of both
          vector-only controls and IDO-expressing clone 11,
          consistent with reports that D 
          2 production is typical of
          antigen-presenting cells [ 31]. There was a greater than
          50% reduction in PG D 
          2 production in clone 11 compared with
          the vector only control and a similar decrease in levels
          of PGs F 
          2α , 6keto-F 
          1α and thromboxane B 
          2 in this clone (Fig 7A). However, PG
          E 
          2 production was affected relatively
          little compared to the other PGs. Thus IDO overexpression
          resulted in an increase in PG E 
          2 relative to the other PGs. However,
          in MC57 cells, the prostaglandin profile was quite
          different from that seen in RAW cells. PG E 
          2 was the dominant prostaglandin (Fig
          7B) and overexpression of IDO resulted in a relative
          increase in the amount of PG D 
          2 and other PGs, relative to E 
          2 .
          In IDO-expressing RAW cells, COX-1 protein levels were
          unchanged compared to the vector-only control (Fig 8A).
          In contrast, COX-2 was not expressed by vector only
          controls or RAW clones 6, 8 and 22 but COX-2 mRNA and
          protein was induced in the RAW clone expressing the
          greatest amount of IDO (clone 11) (Fig 8A). Although
          COX-2 is not usually expressed in RAW cells, it can be
          strongly induced with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) [ 32, 33].
          Therefore, we treated IDO transfected RAW cells and
          controls with LPS and measured COX-2 expression 24 hours
          later. COX-2 mRNA was most strongly induced in vector
          only or low IDO-expressing clones (Fig 8B). Curiously,
          clones expressing higher levels of IDO (clones 22 and 11)
          showed lower levels of COX-2 mRNA induction. In contrast,
          COX-2 protein levels were higher in clones expressing
          lower amounts of IDO mRNA and lower in vector only
          controls, whereas COX-1 protein levels were unchanged by
          LPS treatment. MC57 cells expressed COX-2 constitutively,
          consistent with the domination of the PG profile by PG E 
          2 . However, IDO overexpressing clone
          26 showed a reduced amount of COX-2 protein compared to
          the vector only control (Fig 8C).
          If uniformly diminished PG synthesis by IDO was
          responsible for growth of RAW cell macroscopic foci,
          inhibiting PG synthesis with a pharmacological inhibitor
          of COX-1 and -2 ought to reproduce the effect of IDO
          expression. Therefore we treated vector-only transfected
          RAW cells with various concentrations of indomethacin
          ranging from 0.1 μM to 100 mM. Although some effect of
          indomethacin on cell growth rate was observed, there was
          no sign of macroscopic foci (data not shown). Thus IDO
          expression does not mimic the effects of a global COX
          inhibitor. To test the hypothesis that alterations in the
          relative levels of PGs were responsible for the growth of
          macroscopic foci, we added PGs directly to vector-only
          transfected RAW cells. The phenotype produced by IDO
          expression could be reproduced by adding PG E 
          2 alone to the cultures. PG E 
          2 addition resulted in a
          dose-dependent increase in the appearance of macroscopic
          foci, with visible foci appearing at 1 ng/ml (3 nM) and
          becoming abundant at 10 ng/ml (30 nM) (Fig. 9A). Adding
          PG F 
          2α at the same time as E 
          2 resulted in a reduction of the
          number of foci. Surprisingly, addition of PG D 
          2 also resulted in a slight increase
          in focus numbers (not shown).
          We next attempted to reverse the phenotype seen in
          clone 11 cells. If increased PG E 
          2 production relative to other PGs was
          responsible for the appearance of macroscopic foci, then
          adding back increasing amounts of other PGs such as D 
          2 and F 
          2α should restore the phenotype of
          clone 11 to that of vector only controls. As PG F 
          2α attenuated the focus forming
          ability of PG E 
          2 in the experiment shown in Fig. 9A,
          we added PG F 
          2α in various concentrations to clone
          11 cells. PG F 
          2α at 10 ng/ml (30 nM) substantially
          reduced the focus forming ability of IDO expressing clone
          11 (Fig 9B). Thus an alteration in the PG E 
          2 /F 
          2α ratio plays an important role in
          mediating IDO's effects on cell growth and
          morphology.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Tryptophan catabolism by cells expressing IDO is
        something of an enigma and has resulted in speculation as
        to why the body requires two enzymes with different tissue
        specificities to degrade the rarest essential amino acid [
        5, 34]. The inability of IDO to be induced by its own
        substrate exemplifies this puzzle. While IDO's role in
        controlling intracellular pathogens is well documented,
        there is little understanding of the reasons for IDO
        expression at sites in the body unlikely to be related to
        this function, such as the epididymis. The data we present
        here reveal that IDO expression is an important determinant
        of the way in which cells interact with their extracellular
        environment 
        in vitro . In particular, cell
        adhesion is altered dramatically by overexpressing IDO in
        cells which do not otherwise express it, or inhibiting IDO
        expression in cells in which it is naturally induced
        following cell passage. Specifically, overexpression of IDO
        in RAW and MC57 cells resulted in the growth of macroscopic
        foci and other phenotypic alterations. The cell foci were
        multicellular aggregates, which grew vertically as well as
        horizontally across the plate surface and contained
        significant numbers of necrotic cells within their
        interior, as judged by trypan blue exclusion. Conversely,
        in P19 cell aggregates in which IDO expression was
        inhibited, there was a more dispersed phenotype with cells
        losing the ability to interact with each other. We have
        recently confirmed that IDO expression in RAW cells
        following cell passage is likewise important for correct
        cell adhesion (results not shown).
        Our data support the hypothesis that IDO-induced
        alterations in PG synthesis can modify cell adhesion. We
        observed changes in the relative amounts of PGs in
        IDO-transfected RAW cells and reversal of the effects of
        IDO-expression by PG F 
        2α while PG E 
        2 stimulated focus formation. COX-2 was
        upregulated in IDO-expressing RAW cells. Similar effects of
        PG E 
        2 on cell morphology have recently been
        reported in the human embryonic kidney cell line HEK 293,
        which overexpressed COX-2 and PG E 
        2 synthase [ 35]. COX-2/PG E 
        2 synthase-expressing cells were highly
        aggregated, piled up and exhibited round shape morphology
        similar to the RAW cells described here. MC57 cells, which
        demonstrated similar changes in cell adhesion to RAW cells
        following IDO expression, exhibited lower levels of COX-2
        synthesis upon IDO expression and lower levels of PG E 
        2 relative to other PGs such as D 
        2 . Furthermore, adding back PGE 
        2 to IDO-expressing MC57 cells did not
        reproduce the wild type phenotype (not shown). Thus,
        similar effects on cell morphology were produced by
        opposite effects on COX-2 expression and PG E 
        2 production in these two cell lines. We
        are presently attempting to determine if products of COX-2
        activity other than E 
        2 may be responsible for IDO effects in
        this cell line.
        The mechanism of PG-induced changes in cell adhesion and
        morphology may involve MMP activity. Synthesis of MMPs such
        as collagenase I (MMP-1), gelatinase B (MMP-9) and
        matrilysin (MMP-7) has been shown to be dependent on the
        synthesis of PG E 
        2 , suggesting that alterations in MMP
        expression may be instigated by alterations in PG synthesis
        [ 27, 28, 29, 30]. Furthermore, both COX-1 and COX-2 have
        recently been shown to mediate adhesion of various cell
        types 
        in vivo and 
        in vitro [ 36, 37]. Thus, one
        possibility is that alterations in MMP expression and
        activity could modify cellular interactions with the
        extracellular matrix following IDO expression. Consistent
        with this possibility is the observation that MMP
        expression in P19 cells was correlated with the degree of
        IDO-antisense expression. RAW transfectants over-expressing
        IDO showed reduced expression of collagenase I (MMP-1), and
        also bound less well to collagen-coated plates than
        controls. Collagen is one of the principal components of
        the extracellular matrix and RAW cells bind poorly to
        fibrillar type I collagen unless it is denatured or
        activated by collagenase [ 38]. Thus, the diminished
        expression of MMP-1 in IDO transfectants could explain
        their weaker binding to this substrate. The mechanism by
        which IDO regulates prostaglandin synthesis is yet to be
        determined. Tryptophan is a stimulatory co-factor for COX
        and degradation of tryptophan in the intracellular
        environment could alter COX activity. Alternatively, IDO
        might influence COX activity and expression through
        competition for or release of heme, which both enzymes
        require. 
        In vitro , arachidonic acid
        stimulates the dissociation of heme from IDO and this
        correlates with IDO stimulatory effects on COX [ 39],
        providing circumstantial support for the latter
        possibility.
        The alterations in COX-2 expression observed in
        IDO-expressing RAW and MC57 cells are a particularly
        interesting feature of our results. COX-2 is inducible by a
        number of inflammatory mediators including IFN-γ [ 40] and
        LPS [ 32]. These also induce IDO. Treatment of
        IDO-expressing RAW clones with a known inducer of COX-2
        (LPS), revealed a lack of correlation between COX-2 RNA and
        protein levels. Clones 11 and 22 showed low levels of COX-2
        message but high levels of protein following LPS treatment.
        This suggests that COX-2 RNA and/or protein turnover may be
        affected by IDO expression. Other workers have noted that
        non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which inhibit COX
        activity result in increased COX protein expression [ 41],
        while differences between COX protein expression and
        activity have been reported to be produced by some
        cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α, and also
        nitric oxide donors [ 42, 43]. Although not well
        understood, evidence for regulation of COX expression at
        the post-transcriptional level is increasing [ 44, 45]. The
        down regulation of COX-2 transcripts in LPS-treated,
        IDO-expressing RAW cells is reminiscent of the endotoxin
        tolerance effect observed in human THP-1 promonocytic
        cells. Cells pretreated with LPS and thus expressing COX-2
        showed down regulation of COX-2 mRNA when subjected to a
        second LPS exposure [ 46]. In addition, the COX-2 inhibitor
        flufenamic acid induced COX-2 expression in RAW cells but
        inhibited TNF-α or LPS-induced COX-2 expression in the same
        cell type [ 47].
        As both MMPs and COX-2 are important factors in tumor
        development [ 48, 49] IDO's role in tumorigenesis bears
        investigating. We have observed IDO expression routinely in
        murine tumors 
        in vivo , and are presently
        investigating the growth properties of tumors with altered
        IDO expression. In addition, our recent work indicates a
        role for IDO during pregnancy. Pharmacological inhibition
        of IDO results in pronounced inflammation, complement
        activation and fetal loss [ 17, 50]. Prostaglandins may
        provide a common link between these important biological
        phenomena.
      
      
        Conclusions
        IDO regulates adhesion of cells to normal growth
        substrates. In so doing it modulates the expression and
        activity of COX-2 and certain MMPs. RAW cells and MC57
        cells overexpressing IDO grew as multicellular foci. In the
        case of RAW cells, this was due to elevated PGE relative to
        other prostaglandins. P19 cells in which endogenousIDO
        expression was disrupted by antisense expression, showed
        lower adhesiveness. Thus, tryptophan catabolism exerts
        control over fundamental cellular functions.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Cells
          P19 cells were obtained from the American Type Culture
          Collection and cultured as described [ 23]. Cells were
          differentiated into myocytes or neurones using 1% DMSO
          and 10 -6M RA respectively as previously reported [ 23,
          24]. RAW 264.7 cells were a gift of Dr. D. Greaves
          (Oxford, England) and were cultured in Iscove's Modified
          Dulbecco's Medium supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum.
          MC57 cells were obtained from Dr. Dimitrios Moskiphidis,
          Medical College of Georgia and grown in Iscove's Modified
          Dulbecco's Medium.
        
        
          IDO expression
          A full length, 1.2 kb IDO cDNA was amplified from
          IFN-γ stimulated RAW cells and cloned into pGEM T-Easy
          (Promega), using primers; 5' TAG CGG CCG CGT AGA CAG CAA
          TGG CAC TC 3' forward, 5' TAA GAT CTT ACA CTA AGG CCA ACT
          CAG 3' reverse, which contain Not I and Bgl II sites
          respectively. The 1.2 kb IDO PCR fragment was excised
          with Not I and Bgl II and cloned into the Not I-Bgl II
          site in the pDOI vector [ 51], previously modified by the
          introduction of a Not I site in front of the Eco RI
          cloning site. Plasmid DNA was linearized and transfected
          into RAW cells by electroporation. Stably transfected
          lines were selected in 400 mg/ml G418 and thereafter
          maintained in 200 mg/ml G418. MC57 cells were also
          transfected by electroporation and selected in 1.2 mg/ml
          G418.
        
        
          RT-PCR
          Analysis of gene expression in P19 or RAW cells was
          performed using semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Total RNA was
          isolated from cells using RNA STAT-60 (Tel-Test Inc.) and
          1 mg was amplified for 25 cycles unless otherwise stated,
          following reverse transcription in a one step reaction
          (RT-PCR "Access", Promega). 5 μl of the 50 ml reaction
          volume was electrophoresed on 0.8% agarose gels prior to
          Southern blotting and hybridization with a specific
          probe. Primers and amplification conditions for IDO
          amplification have been described elsewhere [ 17].
          Primers for amplification of other gene specific
          transcripts were as follows; stromelysin-1; 5'
          GATGACAGGGAAGCTGGA forward, 5' ACTGCGAAGATCCACTGA
          reverse. Stromelysin-2; 5' GATGTACCCAGTCTACAGGT 3'
          forward, 5' TGTCTTGTCTCATCATTACT 3' reverse.
          Stromelysin-3; 5' CTGCTGCTCCTGTTGCTGCT 3' forward, 5'
          ACCTTGGAAGAACCAAATC 3' reverse. Meltrin-α; 5'
          TGCATCAGTGGTCAGCCTCA 3' forward, 5' CTTTCTCTGCGGCCATTCTG
          3' reverse. Meltrin-β; 5' TTCAGTTTACACATCAGAC 3' forward,
          5' AGGTCACATTGCCGAACCT 3' reverse. Collagenase I; 5'
          GATTGTGAACTATACTCCT 3' forward, 5' CCATAGTCTGGTTAACATCA
          3' reverse. Collagenase IV; 5' GTATGGAGCGACGTCACT 3'
          forward, 5' CGCTCCAGAGTGCTGGCA 3' reverse. GAPDH; 5'
          TGCAGTGGCAAAGTGGAG 3' forward 5' CCATCCACAGTCTTCTG 3'
          reverse.
        
        
          Antisense inhibition of IDO expression
          Constructs which expressed either sense or antisense
          IDO RNA were produced by cloning a 740 bp RT-PCR fragment
          of the IDO gene, described in [ 17], into the T-tailed
          cloning vector pGEM T-Easy (Promega). This fragment was
          excised with Not I and subcloned into the Not I site of
          the mammalian expression vector pcDNA3 (Invitrogen), in
          either the sense or antisense orientation. Following
          linearization with Bgl II, the constructs were
          transfected into the P19 cell line using Lipofectamine
          (Gibco-BRL) at a concentration of 25 μl per 100 ml of
          serum free medium. Stable transfectants were selected in
          400 mg/ml G418 over a period of 4 weeks and subsequently
          maintained in the absence of G418 in normal growth
          medium. Periodic checks of G418 resistance revealed no
          significant loss of the resistance phenotype.
          Confirmation that resisitant clones expressed IDO
          antisense RNA was obtained by isolating total RNA from
          G418 resistant clones, treating with ribonuclease free
          DNase RQ1 (Promega) and reverse transcribing RNA into
          cDNA in the presence of an IDO sense primer [ 17]. An
          antisense primer was then added and the cDNA PCR
          amplified for 25 cycles. Products were electrophoresed in
          0.8% agarose.
        
        
          Western blotting
          RAW cells expressing IDO and vector only controls were
          harvested in cell lysis buffer (PBS, 1%NP40, 0.5% sodium
          deoxycholate, 0.1% SDS, 150 ng/ml PMSF, 100 ng/ml
          aprotinin) and 25 μg of cell protein was electrophoresed
          on 10% polyacrylamide gels overlayed with a 5% stacking
          gel. Protein was quantitated using the BCA assay
          (Pierce). COX-1 and COX-2 antibodies (Santa Cruz
          Biotechnology Inc) were used in combination with standard
          ECL techniques. Rabbit polyclonal IDO-specific antibody
          was generated against a C-terminal peptide of 42 amino
          acids; KPSKKKPTDGDKSEEPSNVESRGTGGTNPMTELRSVKDTTEK.
        
        
          Measurement of tryptophan depletion by HPLC
          Supernatants from cell cultures were extracted with
          HPLC grade methanol and analyzed on a Beckman Phenomenix
          C18(2) HPLC column and eluted with a 0-80% gradient of
          acetonitrile over 20 minutes. To validate retention times
          and for the construction of a concentration curve a
          standard mixture of kynurenine and tryptophan was
          analyzed for each assay.
        
        
          Analysis of prostaglandin production
          Prostaglandin synthesis was measured by pulsing
          IDO-expressing RAW cells and vector only controls with
          14C arachidonic acid (Sigma). 5 × 10 6cells were
          harvested and resuspended in PBS and incubated at 37°C
          with 1.3 mCi arachidonic acid (53 mCi/mmol) for 30 mins.
          Following ether extraction, samples were dissolved in
          ethyl acetate and spotted onto thin layer chromatography
          plates. Plates were developed in ethyl acetate: acetic
          acid, 90:1, together with unlabeled standards. Individual
          spots were excised from the chromatogram and
          radioactivity determined by scintillation counting.
        
        
          Cell adhesion assay
          Cell adhesion assays were performed essentially as
          described [ 36]. Briefly, cells were seeded into the
          wells of a 24 well plate coated with various growth
          substrates Following incubation at 37°C, for 45 minutes,
          cells unattached cells were removed by PBS washes and the
          remaining cells were counted.
        
        
          Cell migration assay
          P19 cells in log phase growth were trypsinized and 10
          5were seeded in quadruplicate into Falcon cell culture
          inserts, with or without Matrigel coating (Becton
          Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, NJ, 8.0 μm pore size, 1 × 10
          5pores/sq.cm), in a volume of 0.2 ml, in a 24 well tissue
          culture plate. The lower chamber contained a volume of
          0.8 ml growth medium, while the final volume in the upper
          chamber was 0.35 ml. Chambers were incubated for 18 hours
          after which time the number of cells in the lower chamber
          was determined.
        
        
          Image analysis
          The size of individual P19 aggregates was determined
          by capturing fields of 40-50 aggregates at 10x
          magnification and then calculating the area of each
          aggregate using the NIH Image (1.62) analysis program (
          http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih-image/download.html).
        
      
      
        Abbreviations
        CMV: cytomegalovirus
        COX: cyclooxygenase
        IDO: indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase
        IFN-γ interferon gamma
        LPS: lipopolysaccharide
        MMP: matrix metalloproteinase
        NSAID: non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
        PG: prostaglandin
        TDO: tryptophan 2, 3 dioxygenase
      
    
  
