
  
    
      
        Background
        Pathologic classification of tumors has been
        traditionally based on microscopic appearance. Although
        morphology often correlates with natural history of
        disease, tumors of a given pattern may have a broad
        prognostic range and different responses to treatment.
        Molecular methods, such as the evaluation of hormone
        receptors in breast carcinoma, have been effectively
        employed to further characterize tumors [ 1 ] . Nucleic
        acid array-based technologies extend molecular
        characterization by providing a biochemical snapshot, or
        profile, of cellular activity that encompasses thousands of
        gene products [ 2 ] . Potential applications beyond
        diagnosis and prognosis are diverse, and include treatment
        response stratification of patients in clinical trials,
        assessment of relevance to human safety of drug-associated
        tumors in animal carcinogenicity studies, and the
        development of more pertinent animal xenograft models of
        cancer therapy. Successful application of array-based tools
        depends on establishing robust laboratory and computational
        methods that effectively and reliably discriminate between
        tumor types. Recent reports have demonstrated the power of
        such tools to distinguish between clinically meaningful
        subsets of cancer [ 3 4 ] .
        Renal cell carcinoma (RCCa) represents approximately 3%
        of all human malignancies with an incidence of 7 per
        100,000 individuals. Of these individuals about 40% present
        with metastatic disease and a further third will develop
        distant metastases during the postoperative course. The
        most effective therapy for RCCa localized to the kidney is
        surgery and a metastatic tumor is practically incurable.
        There is a low response to biological modifiers and the
        treatment is generally only palliative [ 5 ] .
        We evaluated the RNA expression profiles of renal cell
        carcinomas (RCCa) using the Affymetrix GeneChip platform,
        comparing mRNA expression profiles from a total of 21 human
        tissue samples and two pooled samples. The 21 samples
        consisted of eight normal kidneys, nine clear cell
        carcinomas (CC), two chromophobe carcinomas (Chr), one
        urothelial carcinoma and one metanephric adenoma.
        Expression profiles from a pilot data set of ten samples
        were analyzed using multiple clustering algorithms. Genes
        were then selected from the pilot data set using a
        fold-change criteria or from all of the normal and CC
        samples using a p-value. Genes that were identified from
        both the pilot and the complete data set were categorized
        according to a hierarchical classification scheme based on
        functional attributes of encoded proteins.
      
      
        Results
        
          Clustering of the pilot data set
          The gene expression data from a pilot data set that
          consisted of ten samples (patients 1 - 4, consisting of
          two CC, two Chr, four normals, two pooled samples) were
          analyzed using hierarchical clustering to identify
          structure within the data set. Pooled samples were
          included to determine whether a combined sample yielded
          an expression profile representative of the individual
          samples. To determine the relatedness of the samples,
          clustering analysis was performed. Ten different
          clustering algorithms using four methods of
          pre-processing the data sets were applied to identify the
          most consistent sample-clustering pattern. The rationale
          behind this approach was to avoid the bias inherent in
          any single clustering method and to determine the most
          appropriate clustering method for this data type. Genes
          that were considered "present" above background by the
          Affymetrix software in at least one of the samples were
          included in the analyses. This reduced the data set to
          4571 genes per sample. The 40 sample clusters were
          evaluated to see if their dendrograms fitted the expected
          sample biology (Table 2). The most consistent cluster
          dendrogram, present in 18 of 40 analyses, did indeed
          match the sample biology (Figure 2A) and for 16 of these
          analyses a logarithmic transformation was used. In the
          consensus dendrogram, the two CC, two Chr and four normal
          samples each clustered in separate groups. Interestingly,
          the dendrogram suggested that the expression pattern of
          the normal samples was more similar to the CC than to the
          Chr samples. As expected, the pooled normal sample
          clustered with the normal kidney samples. The pooled
          tumor sample clustered more closely to the CC than to the
          Chr, possibly due to the greater similarity between the
          two CC, and consequent weighting of the pooled sample
          toward the more uniform CC expression profile.
        
        
          Clustering of the complete data set
          To expand our data set we obtained a further 13 human
          tissue samples (patients 12-20), including four normal
          kidneys and nine kidney tumors. These were profiled in
          the same manner as the first 10 samples. From this
          combined data set (23 samples) we selected genes
          classified as Present (see Methods) at least once (5372
          genes) and then clustered the log-transformed data with
          average linkage analysis. This method had previously
          produced a dendrogram that matched the expected sample
          biology in the pilot data set. The sample dendrogram
          (Figure 2B) showed that the relatedness of the samples
          was similar to that observed with the pilot data set. As
          seen previously in the pilot data set the normal samples
          clustered together off a single node. However the Chr
          also clustered off this node and now appeared more
          similar to normal samples than CC. The two CC included in
          the pilot data set (patients 2 and 4) now clustered
          within a larger CC group that include the additional CC
          samples. From this node there also appeared to be two
          outlier samples (patients 18 and 20). Pathology reports
          on these samples revealed that these were not RCCa
          samples but instead patient 20 was a papillary urothelial
          carcinoma and the sample from patient 18 was not a
          carcinoma but a benign metanephric adenoma.
          There were distinct patterns visible in the gene
          cluster that were conserved in the CC samples (Figure 2B,
          zone C), or the Chr samples (Figure 2B, zone B), or the
          normal kidney samples (Figure 2B, zone A). These patterns
          indicated that each subtype of tumor expressed a common
          set of genes that could be selected and further
          characterized. The urothelial carcinoma and metanephric
          adenoma appeared to share few of these genes commonly
          regulated between the other tissue types.
        
        
          Functional taxonomy: Genes differentially regulated
          in CC and Chr
          To select genes that were changed between CC and Chr
          in our pilot data set we used an arbitrary cutoff of 2
          fold-change units in combination with the Affymetrix
          difference call (see Methods). Genes were selected
          according to criteria described in Table 3, which lists
          the number of selected genes in each of eight categories.
          A total of 456 genes were selected by these criteria.
          In order to understand the molecular differences
          between Chr and CC RCCa on a broader scale, we developed
          a gene categorization system ("Functional Taxonomy," see
          Methods) in which genes were hierarchically grouped
          according to the cellular function of their protein
          products. The number of genes within each primary
          category was tallied and plotted to generate a
          first-level "signature" (Figure 3A). The functional
          taxonomy signature provided a graphical method to rapidly
          visualize broad gene expression characteristics of the
          tumors. The cellular function categories that contained
          the largest number of the 456 genes were Signal
          Transduction (97 genes), Cellular and Matrix Organization
          and Adhesion (56 genes), Metabolism (54 genes), and
          Unclassified (65 genes). The CC and Chr samples
          demonstrated differences in the numbers or patterns of
          increased and decreased genes in these categories and
          their subcategories. Almost twice as many genes in Signal
          Transduction were increased in CC compared to Chr; a
          similar number were decreased in both types. Within
          Cellular and Matrix Organization and Adhesion, the
          expression of nearly four times as many genes was
          increased in CC compared to Chr, which decreased
          expression of about three times as many genes as did CC.
          Subcategorization (Figure 3C) revealed a predominance of
          genes coding for extracellular matrix proteins (16 genes)
          and cellular adhesion molecules (10 genes) that were
          increased in expression in CC.
        
        
          Functional taxonomy: Genes differentially regulated
          in CC
          To determine the difference between normal kidney
          samples and CC samples we used a rigorous statistical
          approach based upon a calculated p-value (see methods)
          and the combined data set consisting of eight normal
          kidney samples and nine CC samples. We identified 142
          genes that were significantly upregulated in CC compared
          to normal kidneys and 213 that were significantly down
          regulated. To determine the biological
          significance/function of these genes we used Functional
          Taxonomy to classify them into 16 cellular groupings
          (Figure 4A). The first level signature showed similar
          trends to the CC and Chr comparison (Figure 3A). The four
          categories that contained the most genes were Signal
          Transduction (78 genes), Cellular and Matrix Organization
          and Adhesion (47 genes), Metabolism (40 genes), and
          Unclassified (51 genes). These were the same categories
          that showed the most gene changes in the pilot data set.
          Subcategorization of both categories showed trends within
          CC samples that were similar to those observed in the
          pilot data set. Within the Signal Transduction category
          there were many genes associated with ligands, receptors
          and cytosolic factors (Figure 4Band Table 4). Gene
          expression changes within the Cellular Matrix
          Organization and Adhesion category were focused on
          extracellular matrix genes and cellular adhesion
          molecules (Figure 4Cand Table 5).
        
        
          Immunohistochemistry
          The selected gene lists were reviewed for genes that
          corresponded to proteins that could be evaluated with
          immunohistochemistry. The data sets revealed that mRNA
          transcripts for CD 31 (PECAM) and the T-cell receptor
          beta chain were increased in CC but not Chr. Since
          antibodies to CD 31 and CD 3 (which forms a complex with
          the T cell receptor) are reactive in fixed tissues, we
          used them to stain the tumors. CD 31 was present in CC in
          a prominent dense branching network of fine vessels
          surrounding the tumor cells (Figure 1E). In contrast, Chr
          had few CD 31-positive vessels present (Figure 1F). CD 3
          stained numerous T lymphocytes scattered throughout the
          CC tumors (Figure 1G). These were not initially apparent
          in the hematoxylin and eosin sections, probably due to
          the similarity in size and appearance of the tumor cell
          nuclei and the lymphocytes. In contrast, there were
          almost no T cells in the Chr tumors (Figure 1H). These
          results indicated concordance between the mRNA expression
          profiles and the pathobiology of the RCCa tumor
          sub-types.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Expression profiling of kidney tumors using the
        Affymetrix GeneChip distinctly separated four different
        tumors from each other, as well as from normal kidney
        cortex. This finding is consistent with the morphologic,
        karyotypic and clinical outcome differences between these
        tumor types [ 6 7 ] . There are many sample-clustering
        methods that may be applied to expression microarray data,
        none of which can be conclusively called "correct", since
        each algorithm makes different assumptions regarding the
        nature of the data. We used ten clustering methods combined
        with four ways of pre-processing the data sets to
        eliminate, or at least reduce bias in a pilot data set. The
        smaller pilot data set was used to simplify the
        interpretation of the results. A common cluster dendrogram
        was produced by 18 of 40 methods; 16 of these were from the
        20 that employed logarithmic transformation of the data
        sets. The pattern was consistent with the biology of the
        sample with normal kidney, CC and Chr samples each grouping
        together (Figure 2A). That a logarithmic transformation
        gave the most meaningful cluster dendrograms is consistent
        with the distribution of the untransformed expression data
        being skewed to the left because the majority of genes have
        low expression levels. Standardization of the data assigns
        equal weight to each gene and, hence, increases the
        contribution of unreliable low expression genes. The use of
        logarithmic transformation, on the other hand, improves the
        spread of the data so the distribution is close to normal.
        It also re-adjusts the weight for each gene. For example,
        genes with high expression levels, which might be
        unreliable or biased due to saturation, will have lower
        weights in distance calculation. Therefore, the logarithmic
        transformation improves the calculation of distance for the
        subsequential clustering algorithms and leads to uncovering
        the biological meaningful pattern within the data.
        A comparison of the dendrograms from the pilot data set
        and complete data set reveals some surprising changes. In
        general the major structure of the dendrogram remained the
        same, CC, Chr and normal kidney all grouped separately.
        However, in the pilot data set the CC were more similar to
        normal kidney than Chr, while in the complete data set Chr
        were more similar to normal kidney. It is unclear why this
        larger data set changed the dendrogram and suggests that
        the subtle structure in the dendrogram was not as robust as
        it appeared. With fewer Chr compared to CC it is not
        possible to draw any strong conclusions about relatedness
        of the Chr samples.
        In order to visualize the functional patterns associated
        with a particular set of selected genes we used a simple,
        semi-hierarchical system to categorize genes according to
        the function of the proteins they encode, that we call
        Functional Taxonomy. There are challenges associated with
        the partly subjective nature of categorization of gene
        function, such as where to place a single gene product that
        is involved in several cellular tasks. Ideally, the
        categorization should consider multiple attributes of a
        protein. To this end, we propose three complementary
        classification schemes: (1) biochemical function, which
        categorizes according to molecular activity; (2) cellular
        function, which categorizes according to biological role at
        a cellular level; (3) tissue function, which categorizes
        according to anatomic or organ system location. In this
        paper we have visualized profiling results using the second
        of these schemes (cellular function) at three levels:
        primary categories, secondary categories, and individual
        genes (see Figure 3and 4, Table 4and 5). We have found
        Functional Taxonomy to be a useful visualization tool for
        understanding the differences in gene expression patterns
        between CC and Chr tumors. This system is similar in
        concept to what is currently being developed by the Gene
        Ontology Consortium [ 10 ] .
        The cellular function signatures of nine CC and two Chr
        revealed that the greatest number of gene expression
        changes for both tumor types occurred in the categories of
        Signal Transduction, Cellular and Matrix Organization and
        Adhesion, and Metabolism. This is consistent with current
        theories of neoplasia, which hypothesize that tumor cells
        modify their signaling pathways, establish new contacts
        with an altered extracellular matrix, and refashion their
        metabolic machinery.
        There exists considerable literature on the expressed
        genes and gene products associated with RCCa. Using the
        selected gene sets from Table 3and the p-values and
        fold-change values calculated from the eight normal kidneys
        and nine CC, we looked for concordance between our results
        and published reports. The genes 
        CA 9 ( 
        carbonic anhydrase IX ), 
        CCND1 ( 
        cyclin D1 ), 
        CDH2 ( 
        N-Cadherin ), 
        EGFR ( 
        epidermal growth factor receptor )
        and 
        TGFA ( 
        tranforming growth factor alpha ) all
        showed increases in CC expression that matched the
        literature and had p-values ≤ 0.0061 [ 11 12 13 14 15 ] .
        The observed decrease in 
        CDH1 ( 
        E-cadherin ) in CC (p-value = 0.0045)
        also matched previously published reports, as did the
        decrease in 
        VIM ( 
        vimentin ) expression in Chr RCCa [
        13 16 ] . 
        VIM was also found to be increased in
        CC with a p-value = 0.0045, which was consistent with the
        literature. We detected a small increase in expression of 
        ICAM1 ( 
        intercellular adhesion molecule 1 )
        in CC (Fold-change = 1.9, p-value = 0.0081), which was also
        consistent with the literature [ 17 ] .
        The expression results for the genes 
        JUN ( 
        c-jun ) and 
        VHL ( 
        von Hippel-Lindau ) did not match the
        literature [ 18 19 ] . Nor did the result for 
        KRT7 ( 
        cytokeratin 7 ), which has been shown
        to be overexpressed in Chr [ 20 ] . Instead we found 
        KRT7 to be strongly repressed in CC
        (fold-change = -5.1, p-value = 0.0009). Yet, expression
        profiling using nucleic acid microarrays does not
        necessarily correlate with other forms of analysis for all
        genes [ 21 22 ] . This may be especially true when altered
        expression of a gene is reported to be present in a subset
        of a population of tumors, since a small sample number (as
        are the Chr samples in this study) may not include the
        alteration.
        In the case of CD 31 and the T cell receptor beta chain,
        expression profiling results were concordant with
        immunohistochemical analysis of the tumors. The prevalence
        of the scattered T cells within the CC tumors was somewhat
        surprising, but entirely consistent with the biology of
        response to a treatment for RCCa, interleukin 2 (IL-2),
        since IL-2 activates lymphocytes against the tumor [ 23 ]
        .
        During preparation of this manuscript, an expression
        profiling study of seven renal neoplasms (four CC, 2
        oncocytomas, and one Chr) was reported [ 24 ] . This study
        employed a different platform (Incyte glass slide cDNA
        microarray) and hybridization method (competitive
        tumor/normal binding), and used related but not identical
        gene selection criteria (two fold-change in expression
        versus normal kidney in at least two of the seven tumors).
        The study identified 189 genes that were differentially
        expressed in at least two tumors, and this gene set was
        also able to distinguish between CC and Chr tumor types. We
        suspect that a greater number of Chr-associated genes would
        have been selected in their study had there been at least
        two Chr samples, since a gene altered in expression only in
        the single Chr, but not in any of the oncocytomas or the
        CC, would not have been identified by the selection
        criteria.
      
      
        Conclusion
        The results of the present study demonstrate the power
        of Affymetrix GeneChip expression profiling to
        differentiate between morphologically distinct tissues that
        are descended from a common organ. In addition, they
        demonstrate the value of functional cataloging selected
        genes and visualizing the result in a graphical format.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Sample isolation, histology and
          immunohistochemistry
          Renal cell carcinoma (RCCa) samples were collected
          from patients undergoing radical nephrectomy at the
          University of Michigan Medical Center. All samples and
          associated clinical data were obtained with Institutional
          Review Board approval. A total of 21 tissue samples
          (eight normal kidneys and 13 tumors) were obtained from
          13 patients. Patients ranged in age from 40 to 83 years
          with four male patients and nine female patients. Nine
          patients were diagnosed with clear cell carcinomas (CC),
          two with chromophobe cell carcinomas (Chr), one with a
          papillary urothelial carcinoma, and one with a
          metanephric adenoma. For eight of the patients the
          resection specimens included unaffected kidney (termed
          "normal kidney") as well as tumor tissue. Tissue samples
          were fixed in formalin, or were immediately frozen at
          -80°C in optimal cutting temperature embedding medium
          (OCT, Sakura). Cryostat sections were prepared to confirm
          suitability for profiling (Figure 1Aand 1B); only
          viable-appearing tissues were processed. Care was taken
          to ensure that normal tissue was not contaminated with
          tumor tissue and vice versa. Normal kidney samples were
          uniformly taken from renal cortex. Paraffin-embedded
          tissues were stained with hematoxylin and eosin for
          diagnostic evaluation. Representative morphologies are
          shown in Figure 1Cand 1D. Immunohistochemical stains were
          performed on fixed tissues. Sections were deparaffinized,
          rehydrated and treated with 3% hydrogen peroxide. Stains
          were performed using an automated avidin-biotin complex
          method according to the manufacturer's protocol (Nexes
          IHC Staining System, Ventana Medical Systems), with
          details as indicated in Table 1.
        
        
          RNA isolation
          Total RNA was prepared from each sample (eight normal
          kidneys, 13 tumors). In addition, two pooled samples were
          made by mixing equal quantities of RNA from the kidney
          samples of patients 1 - 4 together, and by mixing equal
          quantities of RNA from the four RCCa samples also from
          patients 1 - 4. The frozen tissues were warmed briefly,
          allowing the OCT compound to soften slightly so that it
          could be rapidly dissected away without the tissues
          thawing. The tissues were then pulverized using a frozen
          steel block and hammer. RNA was extracted using Trizol
          reagent (Life Technologies) according to the
          manufacturer's protocol.
        
        
          RNA labeling and GeneChip hybridization
          Biotinylated target RNA was prepared from 15 μg of
          total RNA using the Affymetrix protocol. Labeled cRNA was
          hybridized on the HuGeneFL Affymetrix GeneChip
          ®containing probes for approximately 5600 mRNAs
          corresponding to genes of known sequence. Each
          hybridization included control RNA transcripts. The
          hybridization reactions were processed and scanned
          according to standard Affymetrix protocols.
        
        
          Data Analysis
          The Affymetrix Microarray Suite and Data Mining Tool
          were used to calculate average difference (gene
          expression) values, fold-change values and difference
          calls from the GeneChip fluorescent intensity data. All
          GeneChips were normalized to avoid differences in
          fluorescent intensity as described in the 
          Affymetrix GeneChip Expression Analysis
          Manual (version 3.1) . The average intensity of each
          gene chip was scaled to 600, where average intensity was
          calculated by averaging all the gene expression values of
          every probe set on the array excluding the highest and
          lowest 2% of the values. If the scaling factor did not
          fall between 0.3 and 2, the GeneChip data was not used.
          Fold-change values were calculated as the ratio of gene
          expression values between each tumor-normal sample pair
          from the same patient, with the normal sample values used
          as the baseline. The difference call was calculated using
          four variables: the number of probes pairs that have
          changed in a certain direction, the ratio of increased
          probe pairs over decreased probe pairs, the log average
          ratio change, and the difference in the number of probe
          pairs changed (either positive or negative). The default
          values (explained in the 
          Affymetrix Manual ) were used in
          the difference call decision matrix. The resulting data
          sets were manipulated and filtered in Microsoft Access
          according to various criteria (see results) for selection
          of genes that showed altered expression in the
          tumors.
          For the pilot data set, sample clusters were prepared
          using the software program SAS (SAS Institute, Cary, NC)
          on the gene expression values. The following clustering
          algorithms were used: seven hierarchical clustering
          methods (single linkage, average linkage, complete
          linkage, Ward's minimum variance, density linkage,
          centroid, and flexible-beta), a k-mean method, and an
          oblique principle component method employing either (1)
          Pearson correlation or (2) Spearman correlation based on
          rank. Negative values were set equal to one. Data sets
          were processed as follows for the clustering analysis:
          unchanged (raw data), log 
          10 transformation, standardization to
          N(0,1), and a combination of both log 
          10 transformation and standardization
          to N(0,1). This yielded a total of 40 sample cluster
          dendrograms. For the complete data set (21 samples plus
          two pooled samples) gene and sample clusters were
          prepared using Cluster and visualized with TreeView [ 25
          ] , using log 
          10 -transformed and median-centered
          average difference values.
          To select genes for further analysis from the pilot
          data set, a two fold-change threshold was used in
          combination with the Affymetrix difference call of either
          increase (I), marginal increase (MI), decrease (D) and
          marginal decrease (MD). For genes selected as either
          increased or decreased in a particular RCCa subtype both
          samples had to show concordance in their fold-change and
          difference call, and both samples from the other subtype
          had to have a difference call of no change (NC) or a call
          that was opposite to that of the first subtype.
          To select genes that were significantly changed in CC
          (nine samples) verses normal kidney (eight samples) a
          non-parametric Wilcoxon test was used to calculate a
          p-value for each gene. Genes were then selected that
          conformed to all of the following criteria: p-value ≤
          0.001; a mean average difference value ≥ 200; fold-change
          ≥ 1.1 for genes increased in CC relative to normal kidney
          or fold-change ≤ -1.1 for genes decreased in CC relative
          to normal kidney.
          All selected genes were then annotated using online
          resources, such as Medline, OMIM and GeneCards. The
          information was used to build a database that included
          HUGO (Human Genome Organization) designated names,
          function and expression information, and any tumor
          associations.
          Given the absence of available tools for visualization
          of tumor gene expression patterns on a broad scale, we
          devised a classification system called "Functional
          Taxonomy" that categorizes genes according to various
          functional attributes of the proteins they encode. One
          such functional attribute is a protein's biological role
          at a cellular level. Using a mammalian modification of
          the MIPS 
          Saccharomyces cerevisiae functional
          categories [ 26 ] , (Munich Information Center for
          Protein Sequences, www.mips.biochem.mpg.de) the genes
          were placed into a hierarchical classification scheme
          containing 16 primary categories of cellular function.
          The number of genes that fell within each primary
          category was counted and plotted graphically to generate
          a first-level "signature" (see Figure 3Aand 4A). Each of
          the primary categories was further divided into
          subcategories for a more detailed second-level
          visualization of the data (see Figures 3B, 3C, 4Band
          4C).
        
      
      
        Authors' Contributions
        Author 1, MAG, carried out sample preparation, RNA
        isolation, data analysis, functional taxonomy analysis and
        drafted the manuscript. Author 2, TC, carried out the
        immunohistochemistry. Author 3, MZM, performed the
        clustering analysis. Author 4, SJM, directed the team who
        carried out the Affymetrix GeneChip hybridizations and
        initial data processing. Author 4 MAR provided the samples
        and reviewed the manuscript. Author 6 EPK conceived the
        study and participated it its design and assisted in
        writing the manuscript.
      
    
  
