
  
    
      
        Background
        During last two decades, the contribution of specialized
        mesenchymal cells, i.e., fibroblast-derived vascular
        pericytes, monocyte-derived cells (MDC), and lymphocytes,
        to the proliferation, differentiation, and aging of
        tissue-specific cells in various epithelial, parenchymal,
        and muscle tissues has gained increasing interest [ 1, 2,
        3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]. Recent developments in the
        understanding of the role of mesenchymal cells and their
        products in regulation of proliferation and differentiation
        of tissue cells were initiated more than seventy years ago,
        when Alexis Carrel demonstrated that leukocyte extracts,
        like embryonic tissue extracts, stimulate multiplication of
        fibroblasts 
        in vitro, and suggested that
        leukocytes can bring growth- activating substances to
        tissue-specific cells [ 11]. Later, in the 1960s and 1970s,
        lymphocytes were shown to promote tissue growth and
        regeneration (reviewed in Ref. [ 12]). In spite of these
        achievements, our understanding of the interactions between
        mesenchymal and tissue-specific cells is still in its
        beginning. While a lot of work has been done on the role of
        various growth factors and cytokines produced by
        mesenchymal cells on the cell cycle and death 
        in vitro [ 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18],
        little is known about interactions between mesenchymal and
        tissue-specific cells 
        in vivo. 
        The role of mesenchymal cells in homeostasis of normal
        tissues (and cancer) is still poorly understood. Our
        studies [ 1, 2, 9, 10], and those of others [ 3, 4, 5, 6,
        7, 8], demonstrate that the interaction between mesenchymal
        cells and tissue-specific cells is complex. The nature of
        the interactions may depend on the tissue type, e.g.,
        liver, brain and muscle with very long lived differentiated
        cells, vs. epidermis, ectocervix and vagina, where cells
        growth and die at a relatively rapid rate. Alternatively,
        it may depend on the prevention ("stop effect") or
        allowance/stimulation of differentiation of cells into the
        suicidal state (apoptosis) by mesenchymal cells in a given
        epithelium [ 10]. The relationship of mesenchymal and
        epithelial cells appears to be tissue-specific and
        established during the critical period of development,
        which coincides with the end of the immune adaptation [ 9].
        Specialized mesenchymal cells, such as pericytes, MDC and T
        lymphocytes, may significantly influence the
        differentiation and aging of epithelial cells. The extent
        to which epithelial cells are stimulated to differentiate
        by mesenchymal cells is dependent on the extent to which
        the particular tissue differentiates during the critical
        period of development [ 9]. We have also suggested that
        advanced differentiation of epithelial cells may require
        certain cytokines released from T cells and DC undergoing
        suicide [ 9].
        The terminal stage of cell differentiation is apoptosis,
        during which cells undergo DNA fragmentation and die.
        Apoptosis is an active process, and it is induced by p53,
        which inhibits cell growth and activates and represses gene
        transcription [ 19]. Proapoptotic function of p53 appears
        to be regulated by 
        ras proto-oncogene. Cells transformed
        with mutated 
        ras exhibit a defect in the signal
        transduction pathway regulating p53 function and alteration
        in the expression of apoptotic (bax) or anti-apoptotic
        proteins (bcl-2) [ 20].
        In human ectocervix, the interactions between cells of
        mesenchymal origin and these of epithelial origin change
        when examined in a cross section from the basal (immature)
        layer, where stem cells reside, to the outermost layers,
        where the epithelial cells are oldest and highest
        differentiated. Hence the ectocervix represents a suitable
        model for the investigation of mesenchymal cell association
        with the differentiating and aging epithelial cells 
        in vivo. 
        The data presented here indicate that phylogenetically
        and ontogenetically developed hierarchy of mesenchymal
        cells (MDC, pericytes, T cells) and immunoglobulins (IgM,
        IgG) accompanies differentiation of epithelial cells from
        immature into the mature and aged phenotype.
        Intraepithelial T lymphocytes and mature DC exhibit
        suicide, and immunoglobulins are associated with aging and
        apoptosis of epithelial cells.
      
      
        Results and discussion
        
          Mesenchymal cells
          The stratified epithelium of uterine ectocervix
          consists of four layers of epithelial cells (Fig. 1A).
          The basal layer ( 
          b ) is formed by a single row of
          basal or stem cells. Parabasal layer ( 
          pb ) is formed by several layers of
          parabasal (young) epithelial cells. Intermediate layer ( 
          im ) consists of multiple layers of
          mature epithelial cells. Superficial layer ( 
          s ) is formed by several layers of
          aged cells. These four morphologically distinct layers
          are divided by three interfaces - b/pb, pb/im, and im/s
          interface. The parabasal and intermediate layers can be
          divided into the lower, mid, and upper layers, the
          superficial layer into the lower and upper layers.
          Mesenchymal cells are present in the lamina propria
          and some invade among epithelial cells. Staining for CD14
          (Fig. 1A) shows small primitive MDC in lamina propria but
          not within the epithelium. Detail, Fig. 1B, shows
          association of CD14 cells with the basement membrane and
          extension among basal epithelial cells. Recent study has
          shown that CD14, a lipopolysaccharide receptor, is itself
          involved in the stimulation of cell proliferation [ 21].
          Similar association of CD14 primitive MDC with
          proliferating Ki67 epithelial cells was detected in
          ovarian cancers (unpublished data). In ectocervix, the
          staining for Ki67 (inset, Fig. 1A) shows that this marker
          of proliferation is expressed in the nuclei of parabasal
          cells adjacent to the b/pb interface. This indicates that
          in the stratified epithelium of ectocervix, the Ki-67 is
          still expressed in the postmitotic cells leaving the
          basal layer and entering differentiation.
          Fig. 1Cshows staining for Thy-1 glycoprotein, also
          called Thy-1 differentiation protein [ 22], of
          fibroblasts and pericytes associated with
          microvasculature (arrows) adjacent to the basement
          membrane. Detail of Thy-1 staining (Fig. 1D) shows that
          pericytes secrete intercellular vesicles, which migrate
          among basal epithelial cells to the b/pb interface, where
          they collapse into empty structures ("spikes"). Fig. 1E,
          and detail 1F, show that major histocompatibility complex
          (MHC) class I molecules are not expressed by basal
          epithelial cells, but they are strongly expressed
          throughout the parabasal layer, including lower parabasal
          cells. Hence, targets for Thy-1 vesicles appear to be
          parabasal cells adjacent to the b/pb interface, i.e.,
          epithelial cells expressing MHC class I and entering
          differentiation.
          The intercellular Thy-1 vesicles have been shown by
          immunoelectron microscopy to exhibit Thy-1 surface
          expression and to contain a substance lacking Thy-1
          staining [ 23]. They may represent a unique paracrine
          mechanism, so called "targeted delivery," by which
          certain growth factor (vesicle content) is delivered by
          chemotaxis to certain type/stage specific target cells
          expressing receptor for Thy-1 ligand. However, the
          receptor for Thy-1 has not been yet identified.
          Targeted delivery of some growth factors by
          intercellular Thy-1 vesicles can be enabled by tissue
          specificity of Thy-1 glycoprotein carbohydrate moieties [
          24]. Thy-1 differentiation protein consists of a single
          Ig domain and represents one of the most primitive and
          ancestral members of immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily. The
          Ig-related molecules have a diversity of functions, but
          in most cases the common denominator is a recognition at
          the cell surface [ 22].
          It has been suggested that the involvement of
          Ig-related molecules in tissue interactions is more
          primitive than their involvement in the immune system and
          the immune functions evolved from the sets of molecules
          mediating tissue interactions [ 25]. Also, the only
          function of Thy-1 and other Ig-related molecules is to
          mediate recognition, with the consequences of recognition
          being due to the differentiated state of the cells. It
          requires that the correct ligand and receptor are
          expressed on the appropriate cells at the right time [
          25].
          MHC class I and class II molecules are other members
          of Ig superfamily. Fig. 2Ashows that large quantities of
          HLA-DR molecules are secreted by precursors of dendritic
          cells (DC) among epithelial cells in the mid parabasal
          layer (arrows). This site-specific HLA-DR secretion is
          particularly evident when DC precursors are compared with
          inactive MDC in lamina propria (Ip) or mature DC in
          intermediate epithelial layers (arrowheads).
          T cells expressing CD8, which is another member of Ig
          superfamily, accumulate in lamina propria, enter
          epithelium, and migrate through parabasal epithelial
          layers (arrow. Fig. 2B) expressing MHC class I (Fig. 1E),
          toward the pb/im interface (dashed line). T cells
          entering lower intermediate layers exhibit fragmentation
          (arrowheads). No T cells were detected in the mid
          intermediate layers or at the epithelium surface.
          CD68 epitope of MDC, mucin-like molecule belonging to
          the lysosomal-associated membrane protein family [ 26],
          was expressed by MDC in the lamina propria (Fig. 2C).
          However, within epithelium, the CD68 appeared during
          transformation of DC precursors into mature DC, in the
          upper parabasal layers (arrow). Mature DC (black
          arrowheads) secreted CD68 among intermediate epithelial
          cells, and CD68 mucin-like molecules accompanied aging of
          epithelial cells (white arrowheads) including surface
          layers.
          Staining for CD1a, an Ig-related molecule
          characteristic for Langerhans' cells, was not detected in
          lamina propria (Fig. 2D). Dendritic cell precursors
          (arrows) and mature DC (black arrowheads) were stained.
          Mature DC reaching mid intermediate layers exhibited
          fragmentation (white arrowheads) similar to that of T
          cells in lower intermediate layers.
          Fig. 1Aand 2A, Cand 2D, show that MDC associated with
          stratified epithelium of ectocervix exhibit
          differentiation associated with morphological changes and
          show changes in immunohistochemical features.
          Interestingly, although lamina propria of ectocervix
          showed the presence of primitive (CD14) moderately
          (HLA-DR) and well differentiated MDC (CD68), the
          monocyte-derived cells entering epithelium appear to
          initiate a new differentiation associated with CD1a
          expression and HLA-DR and CD68 secretion.
        
        
          Immunoglobulins
          Natural autoantibodies are present in the blood of
          normal healthy individuals, and they are almost
          exclusively IgM antibodies, although some IgG and IgA
          natural autoantibodies can also be detected, that bind to
          a variety of self-antigens, including self IgG [ 4, 27].
          When compared to IgG, the IgM molecules appear earlier in
          phylogeny and ontogeny [ 28, 29].
          Staining of ectocervical epithelium for IgM is shown
          in Fig. 2E. Basal and lower parabasal layers were
          unstained but IgM binding increased toward the pb/im
          interface (#1, Fig. 2E). In the intermediate layers,
          similar increase of IgM binding was detected toward the
          im/s interface (#2). In the superficial layers most
          prominent staining was found at the epithelium surface
          (#3). Hence, there was a high affinity of IgM toward the
          upper cells in the parabasal, intermediate and surface
          layers (white arrowheads).
          The IgG did not bind to the basal, parabasal or
          intermediate cells, but showed binding to the entire
          superficial layer (arrowhead, Fig. 2F). These data
          indicate that natural autoantibodies exhibit a
          stage-specific binding to epithelial cells. Similar
          stage-specific binding to epidermis was also detected for
          natural IgM and IgG autoantibodies in normal human sera [
          3].
        
        
          Dual color immunohistochemistry experiments
          Basal and parabasal layers of normal ectocervical
          epithelium show the presence of T cells and MDC. A
          possibility exists that, beside interaction with
          epithelial cells, these mesenchymal cell types may
          interact themselves. Hence, we employed dual color
          immunohistochemistry for HLA-DR and CD8 epitopes. Fig.
          3Ashows distribution of HLA-DR MDC (dark field visible
          light) and Fig. 3Balso demonstrates CD8 T cells (dark
          field fluorescence). It is apparent that MDC interact
          with epithelial cells adjacent to the basement membrane
          (open white arrow) and migrate from lamina propria into
          the epithelium (white arrowhead). Migration of T cells
          through the basement membrane is also evident (yellow
          arrowheads).
          T cells invading epithelium accumulate in the basal
          layer, and some of them enter parabasal layer with the
          assistance of MDC (solid white arrows). Under the pb/im
          interface (dashed line) T cells are associated with the
          differentiation of mature DC (solid yellow arrow). The T
          cells passing pb/im interface exhibit HLA-DR expression
          (open short yellow arrows). In the lower intermediate
          layers, the T cells exhibit diminution in size (open long
          yellow arrow). These data indicate that MDC and T cells
          continuously migrate into the epithelium, interact among
          themselves in the parabasal layer, and show dramatic
          changes at the pb/im interface.
          Fig. 4shows pb/im interface in detail, with HLA-DR MDC
          (A), CD8 T cells (B) and both (C). Under interface, the T
          cells assist differentiation of DC (white arrowheads) and
          exhibit an unusual elongated shape accompanied by HLA-DR
          expression (white arrows). Above interface, the mature DC
          (yellow arrowhead) accompany fragmentation of T cells
          (yellow arrows). These data indicate that transition of
          parabasal into intermediate epithelial cells at the pb/im
          interface is associated with transformation of DC
          precursors into mature DC with the assistance of
          activated (HLA-DR) T cells. The T cells entering
          intermediate layers show a loss of HLA-DR expression and
          commit suicide with apoptotic fragmentation under the
          assistance of mature DC.
        
        
          Apoptosis-associated proteins in ectocervical
          epithelium
          In addition to CD8, we also studied changes of CD3 T
          cell marker. Fig. 5A, and detail in 5B, show
          fragmentation of T cells (arrowheads) among lower
          intermediate layers. Fig. 5Cdemonstrates a lack of T
          cells at the epithelium surface. In contrast to T cells,
          fragmentation of mature DC occurred more distantly from
          the pb/im interface, among mid intermediate layers (Fig.
          5Dand 5E). No dendritic cells were detected at the
          epithelium surface (Fig. 5F).
          Apoptotic cell death is accompanied by expression of
          p53 and ras proteins [ 19, 20]. Arrowheads in Fig.
          5Gindicate p53 staining of cell fragments at the pb/im
          interface, and dashed box and Fig. 5Hcell fragments among
          mid layers of intermediate epithelial cells, p53
          expression was also detected in epithelial cells
          undergoing apoptosis at the surface (Fig. 5I). Staining
          for ras (Fig. 5J,K,L) showed similar features.
          Altogether, these observations indicate that
          intraepithelial T cells and mature DC underwent apoptotic
          fragmentation among differentiating epithelial cells.
          Except epithelium surface, no p53 and ras expression was
          detected in differentiating epithelial cells.
        
        
          Complete and restricted mesenchymal-epithelial
          network
          It is here shown that mesenchymal-epithelial
          interactions in stratified epithelium of ectocervix
          exhibit stage-specific interactions between mesenchymal
          and epithelial cells. They also include interactions of
          mesenchymal cells themselves either in lamina propria, in
          association with microvasculature adjacent to the
          basement membrane, or in epithelium, in association with
          particular stage of differentiation of epithelial
          cells.
          The stratified epithelium of ectocervix exhibits
          morphologically distinct stages of differentiation with
          well defined interfaces, and parabasal, intermediate and
          superficial layers can be subdivided further (lower, mid
          and upper layers of parabasal and intermediate cells, and
          lower and upper layers of surface cells). Hence, the
          mesenchymal-epithelial interactions should involve
          epithelial-epithelial interactions between and within
          epithelial layers. Some of these interactions, like
          diminution of contact inhibition, can be considered as
          downstream initiators of tissue regeneration.
          We speculate that activation of basal (stem) cells
          toward proliferation is not a spontaneous process
          resulting from diminution of contact inhibition, but
          requires an involvement of so called basic "Tissue
          Control Unit" 
          (TCU) of the Tissue Control System [
          23]. The TCU is associated with microvasculature and
          consists of three elements: perivascular MDC, pericytes,
          and autonomic innervation. Extensions of MDC among basal
          epithelial cells (see Fig. 1B) indicate that they may be
          involved in the recognition of demands of epithelium for
          regeneration. Perivascular MDC interact with pericytes [
          30], which are accompanied by autonomic innervation [
          31]. The innervation is involved in the regulation of
          tissue quantity, possibly through the regulation of
          activity of pericytes [ 23]. From this point of view, one
          should consider an involvement of epithelial-mesenchymal
          and mesenchymal-neural interactions as components of
          mesenchymal-epithelial network.
          In the ectocervix, epithelial cells differentiate from
          immature toward aged cells, which undergo apoptosis with
          p53 and ras expression (Fig. 5Iand 5L). This is
          accompanied by mesenchymal cells, which interact
          themselves and undergo differentiation and apoptotic
          fragmentation within epithelium, and by binding of IgM
          and IgG. Such situation can be viewed as a "complete
          mesenchymal-epithelial network" (Fig. 6).
          On the other hand, epithelial, parenchymal and muscle
          cells in many other tissues are somehow prevented from
          apoptosis, yet most of them do not exhibit infiltration
          by T cells and apoptosis of mesenchymal cells under
          physiological conditions. They do, however, contain basic
          TCUs associated with microvasculature. In addition to
          tissue regeneration, the TCU is supposed to regulate
          differentiation of endothelial cells involved in homing
          of tissue committed T cells and MDC (Fig. 7). The latter
          have been proposed to carry epigenetically encoded "stop
          effect" which stimulates differentiation of adult tissues
          to certain stage, but prevents advanced differentiation
          and aging (see Ref. [ 9, 10]). Such "restricted
          mesenchymal-epithelial network" still allows
          regeneration, but ensures preservation of tissue cells in
          the optimal stage of differentiation.
          Epigenetic programing of the "stop effect" appears to
          depend on the extent of differentiation of tissue cells
          during critical period of development, such as
          termination of the immune adaptation. In simple terms, if
          the differentiation of tissue cells is suppressed,
          immature cells will persist during adulthood (muscular
          dystrophy), and if it is accelerated, premature aging
          will occur (degenerative diseases) [ 9].
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        Our observations indicate that the phylogenetically and
        ontogenetically developed hierarchy of mesenchymal cells
        (MDC, pericytes, T cells) and immunoglobulins (IgM, IgG)
        accompanies differentiation of epithelial cells from
        immature into the mature and aged phenotype. In agreement
        with views of others [ 25], we propose that the complex of
        interactions involved (Fig. 6) is not uniquely concerned
        with immunity, but it includes basic interactions which
        stimulate differentiation of mesenchymal and epithelial
        cells. Involvement of immune system-related elements (MDC,
        T cells and B cells) in regulation of epithelium
        differentiation represents a basic mechanism of immune
        physiology toward self, from which the immune surveillance
        toward nonself has evolved. Accordingly, when required, the
        intraepithelial mesenchymal cells regulating tissue
        differentiation may be converted into effectors of immunity
        against infected epithelial cells. Further studies of the
        mesenchymal-epithelial network may bring novel approaches
        to the prevention and therapy of tissue dysfunctions
        characterized by permanent tissue immaturity (muscular
        dystrophy) or accelerated aging (degenerative
        diseases).
      
      
        Materials and methods
        
          Tissues
          Fresh samples from uterine ectocervix were obtained
          from women admitted to the University of Tennessee
          Medical Center for medically indicated surgical
          procedures. The specimens were collected from twelve
          patients who were having a hysterectomy for benign
          conditions such as fibroids or pelvic pain. Patients with
          a history of malignancy, endometriosis, or pelvic
          infections were excluded from the study. All patients
          gave informed consent prior to their participation in the
          study, which had been prior approved by the Institutional
          Review Board.
        
        
          Peroxidase Immunohistochemistry
          Biopsy samples were mounted in 15 × 15 × 5 mm vinyl
          specimen molds (Tissue-Tek Cryomold biopsy, Miles Inc.
          Diagnostic Division, Elkhart, IN), embedded in O.C.T.
          compound (Miles), frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored
          in a freezer at -80°C until use. Frozen tissues were
          sliced into 7 μm serial sections, dried, and stored at
          4°C. The immunohistochemical procedure [ 32] has been
          done within one week. All steps were performed at room
          temperature. Universal DAKO LSAB ®2 Peroxidase Kit (DAKO
          Corporation, Carpinteria, CA), was employed. Briefly,
          cryostat sections were fixed with acetone, dried, and
          rinsed in phosphate buffered saline (PBS). Primary
          antibody, negative control reagent (DAKO), or PBS were
          applied for 15 minutes. Slides were washed in PBS, and
          link solution (biotinated anti-mouse immunoglobulin
          antibody) was applied for 15 minutes. After wash in PBS,
          slides were incubated with streptavidin-peroxidase
          conjugate and washed again. Slides were incubated in
          substrate-chromogen solution, rinsed with PBS, washed in
          distilled water, counterstained with Harris hematoxylin,
          dehydrated and mounted.
        
        
          Primary Antibodies
          Primary antibodies were diluted to obtain a final
          concentration of 5-10 μg/ml of immunoglobulins. The
          following primary monoclonal antibodies were purchased
          from DAKO Corporation, Carpinteria, CA: CD1a Langerhans'
          cell (clone NA1/34), CD3 T cell (PC3/188A), CD8
          suppressor /cytotoxic T cell (DK25), CD14 Monocyte
          (TUK4), CD68 Macrophage (KP1), HLA-ABC Antigen/ MHC class
          I (W6/32), IgG (A57H), IgM (R1/69), and Ki67
          Proliferating cells (Ki67). Antibodies p53 (PAb1801) and
          pan- 
          ras (F132-62) were purchased from
          Oncogene Science, Cambridge, MA. Thy-1 (F15-42-01)
          antibody [ 33] was kindly supplied by Dr. Rosemarie
          Dalchau. HLA-DR (MEM 12) [ 34] was kindly supplied by Dr.
          Ivan Hilgert and Dr. Vaclav Horejsi.
        
        
          Microscopy and Video Images
          Evaluation was performed on a Leitz DM RB (Leica Inc.,
          Wetzlar, Germany) microscope equipped with differential
          interference contrast and a DEI-470 CCD Video Camera
          System (Optronics Engineering, Goleta, CA) with detail
          enhancement. Video images were captured via a CG-7 Frame
          Grabber (Scion Corporation, Frederick, MD) into the HP
          Kayak XU800 PC Workstation (Hewlett-Packard Company,
          Grenoble, France). The captured color images were
          processed with Scion Image analysis program (Scion
          Corporation) based on NIH Image software (Wayne Rasband,
          NIH, Bethesda, MD). To obtain figures, the captured video
          images were copied into the Microsoft ®Power-Point ®97
          SR-2 (Microsoft Corporation, Redmont, WA) PC software and
          size reduced to allow multiple pictures per page. Each
          figure was assigned with descriptive letters and symbols,
          and saved in portable network graphic format.
        
        
          Dual-Color (Peroxidase/Fluorescence)
          Immunohistochemistry
          Dual-color immunohistochemistry [ 35] experiments were
          performed by using two unlabeled primary antibodies and
          the combined peroxidase/fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)
          technique. This was done by visualization of the first
          unlabeled antibody (HLA-DR) by the peroxidase-conjugated
          antibody as above [ 32], without hematoxylin
          counterstain. The slides were then incubated with the
          second unlabeled antibody, washed, incubated with
          FITC-conjugated second antibody, washed again and mounted
          in aqueous medium [ 35]. The antibody reagents in the
          second labeling sequence do not react with those in the
          first sequence because the latter are altered by the
          reaction product of diaminobenzidine [ 36].
          Peroxidase-FITC technique allows separate visualization
          of peroxidase in visible light (either transmitted or
          dark-field illumination), visualization of FITC alone in
          incident fluorescence, and combined visualization of
          peroxidase/FITC in dark-field transmitted fluorescence.
          Microphotography was performed using color negative
          films, and negatives scanned to obtain positive images
          ported into the Power-Point and processed as above.
        
      
      
        Abbreviations
        MDC, monocyte-derived cells; b, basal layer; pb,
        parabasal layers; im, intermediate layers; s, superficial
        layers; Ip, lamina propria; MHC, major histocompatibility
        complex; Ig, immunoglobulin; DC, dendritic cells; TCU,
        tissue control unit; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; FITC,
        fluorescein-isothiocyanate; IHC, immunohistochemistry.
      
    
  
