
  
    
      
        Background
        In the 1830's, Charles Darwin's investigation of the
        Galapagos finches led to an appreciation of the structural
        characteristics that varied and were conserved among the
        birds in this landmark comparative study. His analysis of
        the finches' structural features was the foundation for his
        theory on the origin and evolution of biological species [
        1 ] . Today, 150 years later, our understanding of cells
        from a molecular perspective, in parallel with the
        technological advances in nucleic acid sequencing and
        computer hardware and software, affords us the opportunity
        to determine and study the sequences for many genes from a
        comparative perspective, followed by the computational
        analysis, cataloging, and presentation of the resulting
        data on the World Wide Web.
        In the 1970's, Woese and Fox revisited Darwinian
        evolution from a molecular sequence and structure
        perspective. Their two primary objectives were to determine
        phylogenetic relationships for all organisms, including
        those that can only be observed with a microscope, using a
        single molecular chronometer, the ribosomal RNA (rRNA), and
        to predict the correct structure for an RNA molecule, given
        that the number of possible structure models can be larger
        than the number of elemental particles in the universe. For
        the first objective, they rationalized that the origin of
        species and the related issue of the phylogenetic
        relationships for all organisms are encoded in the
        organism's rRNA, a molecule that encompasses two-thirds of
        the mass of the bacterial ribosome (ribosomal proteins
        comprise the other one-third). One of their first and most
        significant findings was the discovery of the third kingdom
        of life, the Archaebacteria (later renamed Archaea) [ 2 3 4
        ] . Subsequently, the analysis of ribosomal RNA produced
        the first phylogenetic tree, based on the analysis of a
        single molecule, that included prokaryotes, protozoa,
        fungi, plants, and animals [ 4 ] . These accomplishments
        were the foundation for the subsequent revolution in
        rRNA-based phylogenetic analysis, which has resulted in the
        sequencing of more than 10,000 16S and 16S-like rRNA and
        1,000 23S and 23S-like rRNA genes, from laboratories trying
        to resolve the phylogenetic relationships for organisms
        that occupy different sections of the big phylogenetic
        tree.
        The prediction of tRNA structure with a comparative
        perspective in the 1960's [ 5 6 7 8 9 ] and subsequent
        validation with tRNA crystal structures [ 10 11 ]
        established the foundation for Woese and Fox in the 1970's
        to begin predicting 5S rRNA structure from the analysis of
        multiple sequences. They realized that all sequences within
        the same functional RNA class (in this case, 5S rRNA) will
        form the same secondary and tertiary structure. Thus, for
        all of the possible RNA secondary and tertiary structures
        for any one RNA sequence, such as for 
        Escherichia coli 5S rRNA, the correct
        structure for this sequence will be similar to the correct
        secondary structure for every other 5S rRNA sequence [ 12
        13 ] .
        While the first complete 16S rRNA sequence was
        determined for 
        E. coli in 1978 [ 14 ] , the first
        covariation-based structure models were not predicted until
        more 16S rRNA sequences were determined [ 15 16 17 ] . The
        first 23S rRNA sequence was determined for 
        E. coli in 1980 [ 18 ] ; the first
        covariation-based structure models were predicted the
        following year, once a few more complete 23S rRNA sequences
        were determined [ 19 20 21 ] . Both of these comparative
        structure models were improved as the number of sequences
        with different patterns of variation increased and the
        covariation algorithms were able to resolve different types
        and extents of covariation (see below). Initially, the
        alignments of 16S and 23S rRNA sequences were analyzed for
        the occurrence of G:C, A:U, or G:U base pairs that occur
        within potential helices in the 16S [ 15 22 ] and 23S [ 19
        ] rRNAs. The 16S and 23S rRNA covariation-based structure
        models have undergone numerous revisions [ 23 24 25 26 27
        28 ] . Today, with a significantly larger number of
        sequences and more advanced covariation algorithms, we
        search for all positional covariations, regardless of the
        types of pairings and the proximity of those pairings with
        other paired and unpaired nucleotides. The net result is a
        highly refined secondary and tertiary covariation-based
        structure model for 16S and 23S rRNA. While the majority of
        these structure models contain standard G:C, A:U, and G:U
        base-pairings arranged into regular secondary structure
        helices, there were many novel base-pairing exchanges ( 
        e.g., U:U <-> C:C; A:A
        <-> G:G; G:U <-> A:C; 
        etc. ) and base pairs that form
        tertiary or tertiary-like structural elements. Thus, the
        comparative analysis of the rRNA sequences and structures
        has resulted in the prediction of structure and the
        identification of structural motifs [ 29 ] .
        Beyond the comparative structure analysis of the three
        ribosomal RNAs and transfer RNA, several other RNAs have
        been studied with this perspective. These include the group
        I [ 30 31 32 33 ] and II [ 34 35 ] introns, RNase P [ 36 37
        38 ] , telomerase RNA [ 39 40 ] , tmRNA [ 41 ] , U RNA [ 42
        ] , and the SRP RNA [ 43 ] . The comparative sequence
        analysis paradigm has been successful in determining
        structure over this wide range of RNA molecules.
        Very recently, the authenticities of the ribosomal RNA
        comparative structure models have been determined [Gutell 
        et al., manuscript in preparation]:
        97-98% of the secondary and tertiary structure base pairs
        predicted with covariation analysis are present in the
        crystal structures for the 30S [ 44 ] and 50S [ 45 ]
        ribosomal subunits. Thus, the underlying premise for
        comparative analysis and our implementation of this method,
        including the algorithms, the sequence alignments, and the
        large collection of comparative structure models with
        different structural variations for each of the different
        RNA molecules ( 
        e.g., 16S and 23S rRNAs) have been
        validated.
        The highly refined and accurate analysis of phylogenetic
        relationships and RNA structure with comparative analysis
        can require very large, phylogenetically and structurally
        diverse data sets that contain raw and analyzed data that
        is organized for further analysis and interpretation. With
        these requirements for our own analysis, and the utility of
        this comparative information for the greater scientific
        community, we have been assembling, organizing, analyzing,
        and disseminating this comparative information. Initially,
        a limited amount of sequence and comparative structure
        information was available online for our 16S (and 16S-like)
        [ 46 47 ] and 23S (and 23S-like) ribosomal RNAs [ 48 49 50
        51 52 ] and the group I introns [ 33 ] . In parallel, two
        other groups have been providing various forms of ribosomal
        RNA sequence and structure data (the RDP/RDP II [ 53 54 ]
        and Belgium (5S/5.8S [ 55 ] , small subunit [ 56 57 ] and
        large subunit [ 58 59 ] ) groups). With significant
        increases in the amount of sequences available for the RNAs
        under study here, improved programs for the analysis of
        this data, and better web presentation software, we have
        established a new "Comparative RNA Web" (CRW) Site
        http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/. This resource has been
        available to the public since January 2000.
      
      
        Results and Discussion
        
          1. Comparative structure models
          
            1A. Current structure models for reference
            organisms
            The first major category, Comparative Structure
            Models http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/2STR/contains
            our most recent 16S and 23S rRNA covariation-based
            structure models, which were adapted from the original
            Noller & Woese models (16S [ 15 22 ] and 23S [ 19 ]
            rRNA), and the structure models for 5S rRNA [ 12 ] ,
            tRNA [ 5 6 7 8 9 ] , and the group I [ 32 ] and group
            II [ 34 ] introns, as determined by others. This
            collection of RNA structure models was predicted with
            covariation analysis, as described at the CRW Site
            Methods Section
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/METHODS/and in several
            publications (see below).
            Briefly, covariation analysis, a specific
            application of comparative analysis (as mentioned
            earlier), searches for helices and base pairs that are
            conserved in different sequences that form the same
            functionally equivalent molecule ( 
            e.g., tRNA sequences). It was
            determined very early in this methodology that the
            correct helix is the one that contains positions within
            a potential helix that vary in composition while
            maintaining G:C, A:U, and G:U base pairs. As more
            sequences for a given molecule were determined, we
            developed newer algorithms that searched for positions
            in an alignment of homologous sequences that had
            similar patterns of variation. This latter
            implementation of the covariation analysis helped us
            refine the secondary and tertiary structure models by
            eliminating previously proposed base pairs that are not
            underscored with positional covariation and identifying
            new secondary and tertiary structure base pairs that do
            have positional covariation [ 19 70 71 72 ] . Our
            newest covariation analysis methods associate
            color-coded confidence ratings with each proposed base
            pair (see reference structure diagrams and Section 2A,
            "Nucleotide Frequency Tabular Display," for more
            details). One exception to this is the tRNA analysis,
            which was initially performed with the Mixy
            chi-square-based algorithm [ 71 ] , and thus the color
            codes are based on that analysis.
            When implemented properly, covariation analysis can
            predict RNA structure with extreme accuracy. All of the
            secondary structure base pairs and a few of the
            tertiary structure base pairs predicted with
            covariation analysis [ 5 6 7 8 9 71 72 73 74 ] are
            present in the tRNA crystal structure [ 10 11 ] . The
            analysis of fragments of 5S rRNA [ 75 ] and the group I
            intron [ 76 ] resulted in similar levels of success.
            Most recently, the high-resolution crystal structures
            for the 30S [ 44 ] and 50S [ 45 ] ribosomal subunits
            have given us the opportunity to evaluate our rRNA
            structure models. Approximately 97-98% of the 16S and
            23S rRNA base pairs predicted with covariation analysis
            are in these crystal structures (Gutell 
            et al., manuscript in
            preparation). This congruency between the comparative
            model and the crystal structure validates the
            comparative approach, the covariation algorithms, the
            accuracy of the juxtapositions of sequences in the
            alignments, and the accuracy of all of the comparative
            structure models presented herein and available at the
            CRW Site. However, while nearly all of the base pairs
            predicted with comparative analysis are present in the
            crystal structure solution, some interactions in the
            crystal structure, which are mostly tertiary
            interactions, do not have similar patterns of variation
            at the positions that interact (Gutell 
            et al., manuscript in
            preparation). Thus, covariation analysis is unable to
            predict many of the tertiary base pairings in the
            crystal structure, although it does identify nearly all
            of the secondary structure base pairings.
            Beyond the base pairs predicted with covariation
            analysis, comparative analysis has been used to predict
            some structural motifs that are conserved in structure
            although they do not necessarily have similar patterns
            of variation at the two paired positions. Our analyses
            of these motifs are available in the "Structure,
            Motifs, and Folding" section of our CRW Site.
            While the secondary structure models for the 16S,
            23S and 5S rRNAs, group I and II introns, and tRNA are
            available at the "Current Structure Models for
            Reference Organisms" page, our primary focus has been
            on the 16S and 23S rRNAs. Thus, some of our subsequent
            analysis and interpretation will emphasize only these
            two RNAs.
            Each RNA structure model presented here is based
            upon a single reference sequence, chosen as the most
            representative for that molecule (Table 1); for
            example, 
            E. coli is the preferred choice
            as the reference sequence for rRNA (5S, 16S, and 23S),
            based on the early and continued research on the
            structure and functions of the ribosome [ 77 78 ] .
            Each of the six structure models (5S, 16S and 23S rRNA,
            group I and II introns, and tRNA) in the "Current
            Structure Models for Reference Organisms" page
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/2STR/contains six or
            seven different diagrams for that molecule: Nucleotide,
            Tentative, Helix Numbering, Schematic, Histogram,
            Circular, and Matrix of All Possible Helices.
            
            Nucleotide: The standard format for
            the secondary structure diagrams with nucleotides
            (Figures 2A, 2B, and 2C) reveals our confidence for
            each base pair, as predicted by covariation analysis.
            Base pairs with a red identifier ("-" for G:C and A:U
            base pairs, small closed circles for G:U, large open
            circles for A:G, and large closed circles for any other
            base pair) have the greatest amount of covariation;
            thus, we have the most confidence in these predicted
            base pairs. Base pairs with a green, black, grey, or
            blue identifier have progressively lower covariation
            scores and are predicted due to the high percentages of
            A:U + G:C and/or G:U at these positions. The most
            current covariation-based 
            E. coli 16S and 23S rRNA
            secondary structure models are shown in Figures 2A, 2B,
            and 2C. Note that the majority of the base pairs in the
            16S and 23S rRNA have a red base pair symbol, our
            highest rating. These diagrams are the culmination of
            twenty years of comparative analysis. Approximately
            8500 16S and 16S-like rRNA sequences and 1050 23S and
            23S-like rRNA sequences were collected from all
            branches of the phylogenetic tree, as shown in Section
            2, "Nucleotide Frequency and Conservation Information"
            and in Table 2. These sequences have been aligned and
            analyzed with several covariation algorithms, as
            described in more detail in the "Predicting RNA
            Structure with Comparative Methods" section of the CRW
            Site http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/METHODS/and in
            Section 2A. All of the secondary structure diagrams
            from the "Current Structure Models for Reference
            Organisms" page are available in three formats. The
            first two are standard printing formats, PostScript
            http://www.adobe.com/products/postscript/main.htmland
            PDF
            http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/adobepdf.html.
            The third, named "bpseq," is a simple text format that
            contains the sequence, one nucleotide per line, its
            position number, and the position number of the pairing
            partner (or 0 if that nucleotide is unpaired in the
            covariation-based structure model).
            
            Tentative: In addition to the 16S
            and 23S rRNA structure models, we have also identified
            some base pairs in the 16S and 23S rRNAs that have a
            lower, although significant, extent of covariation.
            These are considered 'tentative' and are shown on
            separate 16S and 23S rRNA secondary structure diagrams
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/2STR/. These base
            pairs and base triples have fewer coordinated changes
            (or positional covariations) and/or a higher number of
            sequences that do not have the same pattern of
            variation present at the other paired position.
            Consequently, we have less confidence in these putative
            interactions, in contrast with the interactions
            predicted in our main structure models.
            The 
            Helix Numbering secondary structure
            diagrams illustrate our system for uniquely and
            unambiguously numbering each helix in a RNA molecule.
            Based upon the numbering of the reference sequence,
            each helix is named for the position number at the 5'
            end of the 5' half of the helix. For example, the first
            16S rRNA helix, which spans 
            E. coli positions 9-13/21-25, is
            named "9;" the helix at positions 939-943/1340-1344 is
            named "939." This numbering system is used in the
            Nucleotide Frequency Tabular Display tables (see
            below). The 
            Schematic versions of the reference
            structure diagrams replace the nucleotides with a line
            traversing the RNA backbone.
            The 
            "Histogram" and 
            "Circular" diagram formats
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/2STR/both abstract
            the global arrangement of the base pairs. For the
            histogram version (Figure 2D), the sequence is
            displayed as a line from left (5') to right (3'), with
            the secondary structure base pairs shown in blue above
            the sequence line; below this line, tertiary structure
            base pairs and base triples are shown in red and green,
            respectively. The distance from the baseline to the
            interaction line is proportional to the distance
            between the two interacting positions within the RNA
            sequence. In contrast, in the circular diagram, the
            sequence is drawn clockwise (5' to 3') in a circle,
            starting at the top. Secondary and tertiary base-base
            interactions are shown with lines traversing the
            circle, using the same coloring scheme as in the
            histogram diagram. The global arrangement and
            higher-order organization of the base pairs predicted
            with covariation analysis are revealed in part in these
            two alternative formats. The majority of the base pairs
            are clustered into regular secondary structure helices,
            and the majority of the helices are contained within
            the boundaries of another helix, forming large
            cooperative sets of nested helices. The remaining base
            pairs form tertiary interactions that either span two
            sets of nested helices, forming a pseudoknot, or are
            involved in base triple interactions.
            In th*/e 
            "Matrix of All Possible
            Helices" plot
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/2STR/, the same RNA
            sequence is extended along the X- and Y-axes, with all
            potential helices that are comprised of at least four
            consecutive Watson-Crick (G:C and A:U) or G:U base
            pairs shown below the diagonal line. The helices in the
            present comparative structure model are shown above
            this line. The number of potential helices is larger
            than the actual number present in the
            biologically-active structure (see CRW Methods
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/METHODS/). For example,
            the 
            S. cerevisiae phenylalanine tRNA
            sequence, with a length of 76 nucleotides, has 37
            possible helices (as defined above); only four of these
            are in the crystal structure. The 
            E. coli 16S rRNA, with 1542
            nucleotides (nt), has nearly 15,000 possible helices;
            only about 60 of these are in the crystal structure.
            For the 
            E. coli 23S rRNA (2904 nt), there
            are more than 50,000 possible helices, with
            approximately 100 in the crystal structure. The number
            of possible secondary structure models is significantly
            larger than the number of possible helices, due to the
            exponential increase in the number of different
            combinations of these helices. The number of different
            tRNA secondary structure models is approximately 2.5 ×
            10 19; there are approximately 10 393and 10 740possible
            structure models for 16S and 23S rRNA, respectively
            (see CRW Methods
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/METHODS/). Covariation
            analysis accurately predicted the structures of the 16S
            and 23S rRNAs (see above) from this very large number
            of structure models.
          
          
            1B. Evolution of the 16S and 23S rRNA comparative
            structure models
            An analysis of the evolution of the
            Noller-Woese-Gutell comparative structure models for
            the 16S and 23S rRNAs is presented here
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/EVOLUTION/(H-1B.1).
            Our objective is to categorize the improvements in
            these covariation-based comparative structure models by
            tabulating the presence or absence of every proposed
            base pair in each version of the 16S and 23S rRNA
            structure models, starting with our first 16S [ 15 ]
            and 23S [ 19 ] rRNA models. Every base pair in each of
            the structure models was evaluated against the growing
            number and diversity of new rRNA sequences. Proposed
            base pairs were taken out of the structure model when
            the number of sequences without either a covariation or
            a G:C, A:U, or G:U base pair was greater than our
            allowed minimum threshold; the nucleotide frequencies
            for those base pairs are available from the "Lousy
            Base-Pair" tables that are discussed in the next
            section. New base pairs were proposed when a (new)
            significant covariation was identified with our newer
            and more sensitive algorithms that were applied to
            larger sequence alignments containing more inherent
            variation (see CRW Methods
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/METHODS/for more
            detail).
            Although other comparative structure models and base
            pairs were predicted by other labs, those interactions
            are not included in this analysis of the improvements
            in our structure models. The four main structure models
            for 16S and 23S rRNA are very similar to one another.
            The Brimacombe [ 16 20 ] and Strasburg [ 17 21 ]
            structure models were determined independently of ours,
            while the De Wachter [ 58 79 ] models were adapted from
            our earlier structure models and have incorporated some
            of the newer interactions proposed here.
            This analysis produced two very large tables with
            579 proposed 16S rRNA base pairs evaluated against six
            versions of the structure model and 1001 23S rRNA base
            pairs evaluated against five versions of the structure
            model. Some highlights from these detailed tables are
            captured in summary tables (Tables 3aand 3b, and
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/EVOLUTION/) that
            compare the numbers of sequences and base pairs
            predicted correctly and incorrectly for each of the
            major versions of the 16S and 23S rRNA structure
            models. For this analysis, the current structure model
            is considered to be the correct structure; thus, values
            for comparisons are referenced to the numbers of
            sequences and base pairs in the current structure model
            (478 base pairs and approximately 7000 sequences for
            16S rRNA, and 870 base pairs and approximately 1050
            sequences for 23S rRNA). Three sets of 16S and 23S rRNA
            secondary structure diagrams were developed to reveal
            the improvements between the current model and earlier
            versions: 1) changes since the 1996 published structure
            models; 2) changes since 1983 (16S rRNA) or 1984 (23S
            rRNA); and 3) all previously proposed base pairs that
            are not in the most current structure models
            (H-1B.2).
            An analysis of these tables reveals several major
            conclusions from the evolution of the 16S and 23S rRNA
            covariation-based structure models. First,
            approximately 60% of the 16S and nearly 80% of the 23S
            rRNA base pairs predicted in the initial structure
            models appear in the current structure models. The
            accuracy of these early models, produced from the
            analysis of only two well-chosen sequences, is
            remarkable. Second, the accuracy, number of secondary
            and tertiary structure interactions, and complexity of
            the structure models increase as the number and
            diversity of sequences increase and the covariation
            algorithms are improved. As well, some pairs predicted
            in the earlier structure models were removed from
            subsequent models due to the large number of exceptions
            to the positional covariation at the two paired
            positions. Third, the majority of the tertiary
            interactions were proposed in the last few versions of
            the structure models.
          
          
            1C. RNA structure definitions
            The RNA structure models presented here are composed
            of several different basic building blocks (or motifs)
            that are described and illustrated at our RNA Structure
            Definitions page
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/CSI/DEFS/(H-1C.1-2). The
            nucleotides in a comparative structure model can be
            either base paired or unpaired. Base paired nucleotides
            can be part of either a secondary structure helix (two
            or more consecutive, antiparallel and nested base
            pairs) or a tertiary interaction, which is a more
            heterogeneous collection of base pair interactions.
            These include any non-canonical base pair (not a G:C,
            A:U, or G:U; 
            e.g., U:U), lone or single base
            pairs (when both positions in a base pair are not
            flanked by two nucleotides that are base paired to one
            another), base pairs in a pseudoknot arrangement, and
            base triples (a single nucleotide interacting with a
            base pair). Each of these base pair categories has a
            unique color code in the illustrations on the "RNA
            Structure Definitions" page, which provides multiple
            examples of each category from the 16S and 23S rRNA
            structure models. In contrast to the nucleotides that
            are base paired, nucleotides can also be unpaired in
            the comparative structure models. Within this category,
            they can be within a hairpin loop (nucleotides capping
            the end of a helix), internal loop (nucleotides within
            two helices), or in a multi-stem loop (nucleotides
            within three or more helices).
          
        
        
          2. Nucleotide frequency and conservation
          information
          
            2A. Nucleotide frequency tabular display
            The nucleotide frequency tables appear in two
            general presentation modes. In the traditional table,
            the nucleotide types are displayed in the columns,
            while their frequencies are shown for each alignment in
            the rows. The nucleotide frequencies were determined
            for single positions, base pairs, and base triples for
            a subset of the RNAs in the CRW Site collection
            (detailed in Table 1). Single nucleotide frequencies
            are available for all individual positions, based upon
            the reference sequence, for every RNA in this
            collection. Base pair frequencies are presented for a)
            all base pairs in the current covariation-based
            structure models, b) tentative base pairs predicted
            with covariation analysis, and c) base pairs previously
            proposed with comparative analysis that are not
            included in our current structure models due to a lack
            of comparative support from the analysis with our best
            covariation methods on our current alignments (named
            "Lousy" base pairs). Base triples are interactions
            between a base pair and a third unpaired nucleotide;
            base triple frequencies are provided for a) base
            triples in the current covariation-based structure
            models and b) tentative base triples predicted with
            covariation analysis.
            For each of these frequency tables, the percentages
            of each of the nucleotides are determined for multiple
            alignments, where the most similar sequences are
            organized into the same alignment. For the three rRNAs,
            the alignments are partitioned by their phylogenetic
            relationships. There is an alignment for the
            nuclear-encoded rRNA for each of the three primary
            lines of descent ((1) Archaea, (2) Bacteria, and (3)
            Eucarya; [ 80 ] ), each of the two Eucarya organelles
            (no alignments yet for the 5S rRNA; (4) Chloroplasts
            and (5) Mitochondria), and two larger alignments that
            include all of the (6) nuclear-encoded rRNA sequences
            for the Archaea, Bacteria, and Eucarya, and (7) these
            three phylogenetic groups and the two Eucarya
            organelles (Table 2).
            For the tRNA and group I and II intron sequences,
            the most similar sequences are not necessarily from
            similar phylogenetic groups. Instead, the sequences
            that are most similar with one another are members of
            the same functional and/or structural class. The tRNA
            sequences are grouped according to the amino acids that
            are bound to the tRNA. Currently, only the type I tRNAs
            [ 81 ] are included here; the tRNAs are collected in 19
            functional subgroup alignments and one total type I
            alignment. The group I and II intron alignments are
            based on the structural classifications determined by
            Michel (group I [ 32 ] and group II [ 34 ] ) and Suh
            (group IE [ 82 ] ). The group I introns are split into
            seven alignments: A, B, Cl-2, C3, D, E, and unknown.
            The group II introns are divided into the two major
            subgroups, IIA and IIB (Table 2).
            For the standard nucleotide frequency tables
            (Highlight 2A (H-2A)), the left frame in the main frame
            window ("List Frame") contains the position numbers for
            the three types of tables: single bases, base pairs,
            and base triples. Clicking on a position, base pair, or
            base triple number will bring the detailed nucleotide
            occurrence and frequency information to the main window
            ("Data Frame;" H-2A.1). The collective scoring data
            (H-2A.2) used to predict the base pair is obtained,
            where available, by clicking the "Collective Score"
            link on the right-hand side of the base pair frequency
            table.
            As discussed in Section 1A, we have established a
            confidence rating for the base pairs predicted with the
            covariation analysis; a detailed explanation of the
            covariation analysis methods and the confidence rating
            system will be available in the Methods section of the
            CRW Site http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/METHODS/. The
            extent of base pair types and their mutual exchange
            pattern ( 
            e.g., A:U <-> G:C) is
            indicative of the covariation score. This value
            increases to the maximum score as the percentage and
            the amount of pure covariations (simultaneous changes
            at both positions) increase in parallel with a decrease
            in the number of single uncompensated changes, and the
            number of times these coordinated variations occur
            during the evolution of that RNA (for the rRNAs, the
            number of times this covariation occurs in the
            phylogenetic tree) increases. These scores are
            proportional to our confidence in the accuracy of the
            predicted base pair. Red, our highest confidence
            rating, denotes base pairs with the highest scores and
            with at least a few phylogenetic events (changes at
            both paired positions during the evolution of that base
            pair). The colors green, black, and grey denote base
            pairs with a G:C, A:U, and/or G:U in at least 80% of
            the sequences and within a potential helix that
            contains at least one red base pair. Base pairs with a
            green confidence rating have a good covariation score
            although not as high as (or with the confidence of) a
            red base pair. Black base pairs have a lower
            covariation score, while grey base pairs are invariant,
            or nearly so, in 98% of the sequences. Finally, blue
            base pairs do not satisfy these constraints;
            nevertheless, we are confident of their authenticity
            due to a significant number of covariations within the
            sequences in a subset of the phylogenetic tree or are
            an invariant G:C or A:U pairings in close proximity to
            the end of a helix.
            The covariation score for each base pair is
            determined independently for each alignment ( 
            e.g., Three Domain/Two Organelle,
            Three Domain, Archaea, 
            etc. ). The collective score for
            each base pair is equivalent to the highest ranking
            score for any one of the alignments. For example, we
            have assigned our highest confidence rating to the
            927:1390 base pair in 16S rRNA (Figure 2C; H-2A). Note
            that the entry for the 927:1390 base pair (H-2A) in the
            list of base pairs in the left frame is red in the C
            (or confidence) column. For this base pair, only the T
            (Three Phylogenetic Domains/Two Organelle) alignment
            has a significant covariation score (H-2A); thus, only
            the "T" alignment name is red. Of the nearly 6000
            sequences in the T alignment, 69% of the sequences have
            a G:U base pair, A:U base pair at 16.2%, U:A at 6.9%,
            and less than 1% of the sequences have a G:C, C:G, U:U,
            or G:G base pair (H-2A.1). The collective scoring data
            (H-2A.2) reveals that there are 11 phylogenetic events
            (PE) for the T alignment, while the C1+C3 score is
            1.00, greater than the minimum value for this RNA and
            this alignment (a more complete explanation of the
            collective scoring method is available at CRW Methods
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/METHODS/). Note that the
            928:1389 and 929:1388 base pairs are also both red.
            Here, six of the seven alignments have significant
            extents of covariation for both base pairs and are thus
            red. Each of the red alignments have at least two base
            pair types ( 
            e.g., G:C and A:U) that occur
            frequently, at least three phylogenetic events, and
            C1+C3 scores >= 1.5.
          
          
            2B. Nucleotide frequency mapped onto a
            phylogenetic tree
            The second presentation mode maps the same
            nucleotide frequency data in the previous section onto
            the NCBI phylogenetic tree
            http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/taxonomyhome.html/
            [ 60 61 ] (see Materials and Methods for details). This
            display allows the user to navigate through the
            phylogenetic tree and observe the nucleotide
            frequencies for any node and all of the branches off of
            that node. The number of nucleotide substitutions on
            each branch are displayed, with the number of mutual
            changes displayed for the base pairs and base triples.
            Currently, only the 16S and 23S rRNA nucleotide
            frequencies available in the first tabular presentation
            format are mapped onto the phylogenetic tree (see Table
            1). As shown in CRW Section 2B (H-2B), the left frame
            in the main frame window contains the position numbers
            for the three types of data, single bases, base pairs,
            and base triples. Clicking on a position, base pair, or
            base triple number will initially reveal, in the larger
            section of the main frame, the root of the phylogenetic
            tree, with the frequencies for the selected single
            base, base pair, or base triple. The presentation for
            single bases (H-2B.1) reveals the nucleotides and their
            frequencies for all sequences at the root level,
            followed by the nucleotides and their frequencies for
            the Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukaryota (nuclear,
            mitochondrial, and chloroplast). Nucleotides that occur
            in less than 2%, 1.5%, 1%, 0.5%, 0.2%, and 0.1% of the
            sequences can be eliminated from the screen by changing
            the green "percentage limit" selection at the top of
            the main frame. The number of phylogenetic levels
            displayed on the screen can also be modulated with the
            yellow phylogenetic level button at the top of the main
            frame. Highlight 2B.1 displays only one level of the
            phylogenetic tree from the point of origin, which is
            the root level for this example. In contrast, Highlight
            2B.2 displays four levels from the root. The number of
            single nucleotide changes on each branch of the
            phylogenetic tree is shown at the end of the row. For
            single bases, this number is in black. For base pairs,
            there are two numbers. The orange color refers to the
            number of changes at one of the two positions, while
            the pink color refers to the number of mutual changes
            (or covariations) that has occurred on that branch of
            the tree (H-2B.2). For example, for the 16S rRNA base
            pair 501:544, there are 65 mutual and 74 single changes
            in total for the Archaea, Bacteria, Eucarya nuclear,
            mitochondrial, and chloroplast. Within the Archaea,
            there are six mutual and five single changes. Five of
            these mutual changes are within the Euryarchaeota, and
            four of these are within the Halobacteriales (H-2B.2).
            The base pair types that result from a mutual change
            (or strict covariation) are marked with an asterisk
            ("*").
          
          
            2C. Secondary structure conservation
            diagrams
            Conservation secondary structure diagrams summarize
            nucleotide frequency data by revealing the nucleotides
            present at the most conserved positions and the
            positions that are present in nearly all sequences in
            the analyzed data set. The conservation information is
            overlaid on a secondary structure diagram from a
            sequence that is representative of the chosen group ( 
            e.g., E. coli for the gamma
            subdivision of the Proteobacteria, or 
            S. cerevisiae for the Fungi;
            H-2C.1). All positions that are present in less than
            95% of the sequences studied are considered variable,
            hidden from view, and replaced by arcs. These regions
            are labeled to show the minimum and maximum numbers of
            nucleotides present in that region in the group under
            study ( 
            e.g., [0-179] indicates that all
            sequences in the group contain a minimum of zero
            nucleotides but not more than 179 nucleotides in a
            particular variable region). The remaining positions,
            which are present in at least 95% of the sequences, are
            separated into four groups (H-2C.1): 1) those which are
            conserved in 98-100% of the sequences in the group
            (shown with red upper-case letters indicating the
            conserved nucleotide); 2) those which are conserved in
            90-98% of the sequences in the group (shown with red
            lower-case letters indicating the conserved
            nucleotide); 3) those which are conserved in 80-90% of
            the sequences in the group (shown with large closed
            circles); and 4) those which are conserved in less than
            80% of the sequences in the group (shown with small
            open circles).
            Insertions relative to the reference sequence are
            identified with a blue line to the nucleotides between
            which the insertion occurs, and text in small blue font
            denoting the maximum number of nucleotides that are
            inserted and the percentage of the sequences with any
            length insertion at that place in the conservation
            secondary structure diagram (H-2C.1). All insertions
            greater than five nucleotides are tabulated, in
            addition to insertions of one to four nucleotides that
            occur in more than 10% of the sequences analyzed for
            that conservation diagram. Each diagram contains the
            full NCBI phylogenetic classification
            http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/taxonomyhome.html/for
            the group.
            Currently, there are conservation diagrams for the
            5S, 16S, and 23S rRNA for the broadest phylogenetic
            groups: (1) the three major phylogenetic groups and the
            two Eucarya organelles, chloroplasts and mitochondria;
            (2) the three major phylogenetic groups; (3) the
            Archaea; (4) the Bacteria; (5) the Eucarya (nuclear
            encoded); (6) the chloroplasts; and (7) the
            mitochondria. Longer term, our goal is to generate rRNA
            conservation diagrams for all branches of the
            phylogenetic tree that contain a significant number of
            sequences. Toward this end, we have generated 5S, 16S,
            and 23S rRNA conservation diagrams for many of the
            major phylogenetic groups within the Bacterial lineage
            ( 
            e.g., Firmicutes and
            Proteobacteria). We will also be generating
            conservation diagrams for the group I and II
            introns.
            The CRW Site conservation diagram interface (H-2C.2)
            provides both the conservation diagrams (in PostScript
            and PDF formats) and useful auxiliary information. The
            display is sorted phylogenetically, with each row of
            the table containing all available conservation
            information for the rRNA sequences in that phylogenetic
            group. For each of the three rRNA molecules (5S, 16S,
            and 23S), three items are available: 1) the reference
            structure diagram, upon which the conservation
            information is overlaid; 2) the conservation diagram
            itself; and 3) the number of sequences summarized in
            the conservation diagram, which links to a
            web-formatted list of those sequences. The lists, for
            each sequence, contain: 1) organism name (NCBI
            scientific name); 2) GenBank accession number; 3) cell
            location; 4) RNA Type; 5) RNA Class; and 6) NCBI
            phylogeny. Users who want more information about a
            given sequence should consult the CRW RDBMS (see
            below). An equivalent presentation for intron
            conservation data is under development.
          
        
        
          3. Sequence and structure data
          
            Structure-based alignments and phylogenetic
            analysis of RNA structure
            Analysis of the patterns of sequence conservation
            and variation present in RNA sequence alignments can
            reveal phylogenetic relationships and be utilized to
            predict RNA structure. The accuracy of the phylogenetic
            tree and the predicted RNA structure is directly
            dependent on the proper juxtapositioning of the
            sequences in the alignment. These alignments are an
            attempt to approximate the best juxtapositioning of
            sequences that represent similar placement of
            nucleotides in their three-dimensional structure. For
            sequences that are very similar, the proper
            juxtapositioning or alignment of sequences can be
            achieved simply by aligning the obviously similar or
            identical subsequences with one another. However, when
            there is a significant amount of variation between the
            sequences, it is not possible to align sequences
            accurately or with confidence based on sequence
            information alone. For these situations, we can
            juxtapose those sequences that form the same secondary
            and tertiary structure by aligning the positions that
            form the same components of the similar structure
            elements ( 
            e.g., align the positions that
            form the base of the helix, the hairpin loop, 
            etc. ). Given the accurate
            prediction of the 16S and 23S rRNA secondary structures
            from the analysis of the alignments we assembled, we
            are now even more confident in the accuracy of the
            positioning of the sequence positions in our
            alignments, and the process we utilize to build
            them.
          
          
            Aligning new sequences
            At this stage in our development of the sequence
            alignments, there are well-established and distinct
            patterns of sequence conservation and variation. From
            the base of the phylogenetic tree, we observe regions
            that are conserved in all of the rRNA sequences that
            span the three phylogenetic domains and the two
            eucaryotic organelles, the chloroplast and
            mitochondria. Other regions of the rRNA are conserved
            within the three phylogenetic domains although variable
            in the mitochondria. As we proceed into the
            phylogenetic tree, we observe positions that are
            conserved within one phylogenetic group and different
            at the same level in the other phylogenetic groups. For
            example, Bacterial rRNAs have positions that are
            conserved within all members of their group, but
            different from the Archaea and the Eucarya
            (nuclear-encoded). These types of patterns of
            conservation and variation transcend all levels of the
            phylogenetic tree and result in features in the rRNA
            sequences and structures that are characteristic for
            each of the phylogenetic groups at each level of the
            phylogenetic tree ( 
            e.g., level one: Bacterial,
            Archaea, Eucarya; level two: Crenarchaeota,
            Euryarchaeota in the Archaea; level three: gamma,
            alpha, beta, and delta/epsilon subdivisions in the
            Proteobacteria). Carl Woese likened the different rates
            of evolution at the positions in the rRNA to the hands
            on a clock [ 4 ] . The highly variable regions are
            associated with the second hand; these can change many
            times for each single change that occurs in the regions
            associated with the minute hand. Accordingly, the
            minute hand regions change many times for each single
            change in the hour hand regions of the rRNAs. In
            addition to the different rates of evolution, many of
            the positions in the rRNA are dependent on one another.
            The simplest of the dependencies, positional
            covariation, is the basis for the prediction of the
            same RNA structure from similar RNA sequences (see
            Section 1A, Covariation Analysis).
            We utilize these underlying dynamics in the
            evolution and positional dependency of the RNA to
            facilitate the alignment and structural analysis of the
            RNA sequences. Our current RNA data sets contain a very
            large and diverse set of sequences that represent all
            sections of the major phylogenetic branches on the tree
            of life. This data collection also contains many
            structural variations, in addition to their conserved
            sequence and structure core. The majority of the new
            RNA sequences are very similar to at least one sequence
            that has already been aligned for maximum sequence and
            structure similarity; thus, these sequences are
            relatively simple to align. However, some of the new
            sequences contain subsequences that cannot be aligned
            with any of the previously aligned sequences, due to
            the excessive variation in these hypervariable regions.
            For these sequences, the majority of the sequence can
            be readily aligned with the more conserved elements,
            followed by a manual, visual analysis of the
            hypervariable regions. To align these hypervariable
            regions with more confidence, we usually need several
            more sequences with significant similarity in these
            regions that will allow us to identify positional
            covariation and subsequently to predict a new
            structural element. Thus, at this stage in the
            development of the alignments, the most conserved
            regions ( 
            i.e., hour hand regions) and
            semi-conserved regions ( 
            i.e., minute hand regions) have
            been aligned with high confidence. The second and
            sub-second ( 
            i.e., tenth and hundredth of a
            second) hand regions have been aligned for many of the
            sequences on the branches at the ends on the
            phylogenetic tree. However, regions of the sequences
            continue to challenge us. For example, the 545 and 1707
            regions ( 
            E. coli numbering) contain an
            excessive amount of variation in the Eucarya
            nuclear-encoded 23S-like rRNAs. These two regions could
            not be well aligned and we could not predict a common
            structure with comparative analysis with ten Eucaryotic
            sequences in 1988 (see Figures 35-43 in [ 48 ] ).
            However, once a larger number of related Eucaryotic
            23S-like rRNA sequences was determined, we reanalyzed
            these two regions and were able to align those regions
            to other related organisms ( 
            e.g., S. cerevisiae with 
            Schizosaccharomyces pombe,
            Cryptococcus neoformans, Pneumocystis carinii, Candida
            albicans, and 
            Mucor racemosus ) and predict a
            secondary structure that is common for all of these
            rRNAs (see Figures 3and 6 in [ 52 ] ). While the
            secondary structures for the fungal 23S-like rRNAs are
            determined in these regions, the animal rRNAs were only
            partially solved. We still need to determine a common
            secondary structure for the large variable-sized
            insertions in the animal rRNAs, and this will require
            even more animal 23S-like rRNA sequences from organisms
            that are very closely related to the organisms for
            which we currently have sequences.
          
          
            A large sampling of secondary structure
            diagrams
            We have generated secondary structure diagrams for
            sequences that represent the major phylogenetic groups,
            and for those sequences that reveal the major forms of
            sequence and structure conservation and variation. New
            secondary structure diagrams are templated from an
            existing secondary structure diagram and the alignment
            of these two sequences, the sequence for the new
            structure diagram and the sequence for the structure
            that has been templated. The nucleotides in the new
            sequence replace the templated sequence when they are
            in the same position in the alignment, while positions
            in the new sequence that are not juxtaposed with a
            nucleotide in the templated sequence are initially left
            unstructured. These nucleotides are then placed
            interactively into their correct location in the
            structure diagram with the program XRNA (Weiser &
            Noller, University of California, Santa Cruz) and
            base-paired when there is comparative support for that
            pairing in the alignment; otherwise, they are left
            unpaired.
            The process of generating these secondary structure
            diagrams occurs in parallel with the development of the
            sequence alignments. In some cases, the generation of a
            structure diagram helps us identify problems with the
            sequence or its alignment. For example, anomalies in
            structural elements (in the new structure diagram) that
            had strong comparative support in the other sequences
            could be the result of a bad sequence or due to the
            misalignment of sequences in the helix region. In other
            cases, the new structure diagram reveals a possible
            helix in a variable region that was weakly predicted
            with comparative analysis. However, a re-inspection of
            a few related structure diagrams revealed another
            potential helix in this region that was then
            substantiated from an analysis of the corresponding
            region of the alignment. Thus, the process of
            generating additional secondary structure diagrams
            improves the sequence alignments and the predicted
            structures, in addition to the original purpose for
            these diagrams, to reveal the breadth of sequence
            conservation and variation for any one RNA type.
            Our goals for the "Sequence and Structure Data"
            section of the CRW Site are to:
            A) Align all rRNA, group I and II intron sequences
            that are greater than 90% complete and are available at
            GenBank;
            B) Generate rRNA and group I/II intron secondary
            structure diagrams for organisms that are
            representative of a phylogenetic group or
            representative of a type of RNA structural element. The
            generation of 5S, 16S, and 23S rRNAs secondary
            structures from genomic sequences generally has higher
            priority over other rRNA sequences.
            C) Enter pertinent information for each sequence and
            structure into our relational database management
            system. This computer system organizes all of our RNA
            sequence and structure entries, associates them with
            the organisms' complete NCBI phylogeny
            http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/taxonomyhome.html/,
            and allows for the efficient retrieval of this data
            (see Section 4: Data Access Systems for more
            details).
            Due in part to the technological improvements in the
            determination of nucleic acid sequence information, the
            number of ribosomal RNA and group I and II intron
            sequences has increased significantly within the past
            10 years. As of December 2001, the approximate numbers
            of complete or nearly complete sequences and secondary
            structure diagrams for each of these RNAs for the major
            phylogenetic groups and structural categories are shown
            in Highlight 3A.1. At this time, the actual number of
            sequences that are both greater than 90% complete and
            available at GenBank is greater than the number in our
            CRW RDBMS.
            The sequences, alignments, and secondary structure
            diagrams are available from several different web
            pages, which are described below in Sections 3A-3D and
            4A-4B.
          
          
            3A. Index of available sequences and
            structures
            The top section of the "Index of Available Sequences
            and Structures" page (H-3A.1) reveals the numbers of
            available sequences for the Archaea, Bacteria, and
            Eucarya nuclear, mitochondrial, and chloroplast groups
            that are at least 90% complete and structure diagrams
            for the 5S, 16S, and 23S rRNAs and group I and group II
            introns. The remainder of the index page contains the
            numbers of sequences and structures for more expanded
            lists for each of those five phylogenetic/cell location
            groups. For example, the Archaea are expanded to the
            Crenarchaeota, Euryarchaeota, Korarchaeota, and
            unclassified Archaea. These counts are updated
            dynamically when the information in our relational
            database management system is revised. The numbers of
            sequences and structures are links that open the RDBMS
            "standard" output view (see below for details) for the
            selected target set. Secondary structure diagrams are
            available in PostScript, PDF, and BPSEQ (see above)
            formats from the structure links. The organism names in
            the output from these links are sorted alphabetically.
            The number of entries per output page is selectable
            (20, 50, 100, 200, or 400), with 20 set as a default.
            Entries not shown on the first page can be viewed by
            clicking on the "Next" button at the bottom left of the
            output page.
            As of December 2001, our data collection contains
            11,464 rRNA (5S, 16S, and 23S) and intron (group I, II,
            and other) sequences. The ribosomal RNAs comprise 80%
            of this total, and 16S rRNA represents 82% of the rRNA
            total; the remainder is split between the 23S and 5S
            rRNAs. Intron sequences comprise 20% of our total
            collection, with approximately twice as many group I
            introns than group II introns. Of the 406 secondary
            structure diagrams, the majority are for the 16S (71%)
            and 23S (20%) rRNAs. At this time, tRNA records are not
            maintained in our database system.
          
          
            3B. New secondary structure diagrams
            Secondary structure diagrams that have been created
            or modified recently are listed and available from
            their own page (H-3B.1). These diagrams are sorted into
            one of three categories: new or modified 1) in the past
            seven days (highlighted with red text); 2) in the past
            month (blue text); and 3) in the past three months
            (black text). Diagrams are listed alphabetically by
            organism name within each of the three time categories.
            The display also indicates the cell location and RNA
            Class (see below) for each diagram. The PostScript,
            PDF, and BPSEQ files can be viewed by clicking the
            appropriate radio button at the top of this page and
            then the links in the structure field.
          
          
            3C. Secondary structure diagram retrieval
            Multiple secondary structure diagrams can be
            downloaded from the Secondary Structure Retrieval Page
            (Highlight 3C.1). This system allows the user to select
            from organism names, phylogeny (general: Archaea,
            Bacteria, Eukaryota, and Virus), RNA Class (see Table
            4), and cell location, as well as selecting for
            PostScript, PDF, or BPSEQ display formats. Once these
            selections are made, a list of the structure diagrams
            that fit those criteria appears. The user may select
            any or all of the diagrams to be downloaded. The 23S
            rRNA diagrams (which appear in two halves) are
            presented on one line as a single unit to ensure that
            both halves are downloaded. The system packages the
            secondary structure diagrams files into a compressed
            tar file, which can be uncompressed with appropriate
            software on Macintosh, Windows, and Unix computer
            platforms. (Note: due to a limitation in the web server
            software, it is currently not possible to reliably
            download more than 300 structures at one time. This
            limitation can be avoided by subdividing large
            queries.)
          
          
            3D. Sequence alignment retrieval
            The Sequence Alignment Retrieval page (Highlight
            3D.1) provides access to the sequence alignments used
            in the analyses presented at the CRW Site. Sequence
            alignments are available in GenBank and AE2 (Macke)
            formats (Table 2). These alignments will be updated
            periodically when the number of new sequences is
            significant. Newer alignments might also contain
            refinements in the alignments of the sequences. For
            each alignment, there is a corresponding list of
            sequences, their phylogenetic placement, and other
            information about the sequences (see conservation list
            of sequences for conservation diagrams). At present,
            only the rRNA alignments are available; the group I and
            group II intron alignments will be made available in
            June 2002.
          
          
            3E. rRNA Introns
            The introns that occur in 16S and 23S rRNAs are
            organized into four preconfigured online tables. These
            tables disseminate the intron information and emphasize
            the major dimensions inherent in this data: 1) intron
            position in the rRNA, 2) intron type, 3) phylogenetic
            distribution, and 4) number of introns per exon
            gene.
          
          
            3E. rRNA Introns Table 1: Intron Position
            The introns in rRNA Introns Table 1 are organized by
            their position numbers in the 16S and 23S rRNAs. The
            16S and 23S rRNA position numbers are based on the 
            E. coli rRNA reference sequence
            (J01695) (see Table 1). The intron occurs between the
            position number listed and the following position ( 
            e.g., the introns between
            position 516 and 517 are listed as 516). rRNA Introns
            Table 1 has four components.
            The total number of introns and the number of
            positions with at least one intron in 16S and 23S rRNA
            are shown in rRNA Introns Table 1A (see highlights
            below and H-3E.1). The list of all publicly available
            rRNA introns, sorted by the numeric order of the intron
            positions, is contained in rRNA Introns Table 1B. This
            table has nine fields: 1) rRNA type (16S or 23S); 2)
            the intron position; 3) the number of documented
            introns occurring at that position; 4) the intron types
            (RNA classes) for each rRNA intron position; 5) the
            number of introns for each intron type for each rRNA
            position; 6) the length variation (minimum # - maximum
            #) for introns in each intron type; 7) the cell
            location for each intron type; 8) the number of
            phylogenetic groups for each intron type, (here,
            defined using the third column from rRNA Introns Table
            3: Phylogenetic Distribution); and 9) the organism name
            and accession number.
            These fields in rRNA Introns Table 1B (H-3E.1) allow
            for a natural dissemination of the introns that occur
            at each rRNA site. For example, of the 116 introns (as
            of December 2001) at position 516 in 16S rRNA, 55 of
            them are in the IC1 subgroup (H-3E.2); these introns
            range from 334-1789 nucleotides in length, all occur in
            the nucleus, and are distributed into four distinct
            phylogenetic groups. 54 of the introns at position 516
            are in the IE subgroup, range from 190-622 nucleotides
            in length, all occur in the nucleus, and are also
            distributed into four distinct phylogenetic groups,
            etc.
            Additional information is available in a new window
            for each of the values in rRNA Introns Table 1B
            (H-3E.3). This information is retrieved from the
            relational database management system (see section 4).
            The information for each intron entry in the new window
            are: 1) exon (16S or 23S rRNA); 2) intron position in
            the rRNA; 3) intron type (RNA class); 4) length of
            intron (in nucleotides); 5) cell location; 6) NCBI
            phylogeny; 7) organism name; 8) accession number; 9)
            link to structure diagram (if it is available); and 10)
            comment.
            The number of intron types per intron position are
            tabulated in rRNA Introns Table 1C (H-3E.4), while the
            number of introns at each rRNA position are ranked in
            rRNA Introns Table 1D (H-3E.5). This latter table
            contains six fields of information for each rRNA: 1)
            number of introns per rRNA position; 2) number of
            positions with that number of introns; 3) the rRNA
            position numbers; 4) total number of introns (field #1
            × field #2); 5) the Poisson probability (see rRNA
            Introns Table 1D for details); and 6) the expected
            number of introns for each of the observed number of
            introns per rRNA site.
            The highlights from rRNA Introns Table 1 are: 1) As
            of December 2001, there are 1184 publicly available
            introns that occur in the rRNAs, with 900 in the 16S
            rRNA, and 284 in 23S rRNA. These introns are
            distributed over 152 different positions, 84 in the 16S
            rRNA and 68 in 23S rRNA. 2) Although 16S rRNA is
            approximately half the length of 23S rRNA, there are
            more than three times as many introns in 16S rRNA.
            However, this bias is due, at least in part, to the
            more prevalent sampling of 16S and 16S-like rRNAs for
            introns. 3) The sampling of introns at the intron
            positions is not evenly distributed (1184/152 = 7.79
            introns per position for a random sampling). Instead,
            nearly 50% (71/152) of the intron positions contain a
            single intron and 89% (135/152) of the intron positions
            contain ten or less introns. In contrast, 59%
            (681/1163) of the introns are located at 9% of the
            intron positions and the three intron positions with
            the most introns (943, 516, and 1516 in 16S rRNA)
            contain 361, or 31% (361/1163), of the rRNA introns. 4)
            rRNA Introns Table 1D compares the observed
            distribution of rRNA introns with the Poisson
            distribution for the observed number of introns. The
            Poisson distribution, 
            P(x) = 
            e -μμ 
            x 
            x! -1, where μ is the mean
            frequency of introns for positions in a particular exon
            and 
            x is the target number of introns
            present at a particular position, allows the
            calculation of expected numbers of positions containing
            a particular number of introns. Based upon the observed
            raw numbers of introns in the 16S and 23S rRNAs, we
            expect to see no positions in 16S rRNA containing more
            than five introns and no positions in 23S rRNA
            containing more than three introns. However,
            thirty-five rRNA positions fall into one of those two
            categories. We also see both more positions without
            introns and fewer positions containing only one or two
            introns than expected. This observed distribution of
            rRNA introns among the available insertion positions is
            extremely unlikely to occur by chance. 5) While a
            single intron type occurs at the majority of the intron
            positions, several positions have more than one intron
            type. A few of the positions that deserve special
            attention have IC1 and IE introns at the same position
            (16S rRNA positions 516 and 1199, and 23S rRNA position
            2563). The 16S rRNA position 788 has several examples
            each of IC1, IIB, and I introns.
          
          
            3E. rRNA Introns Table 2: Intron Type
            The introns are organized by intron type, as defined
            above, in rRNA Introns Table 2 (H-3E.6). The frequency
            of 16S and 23S rRNA exons, non-rRNA exons, number of
            intron positions in the 16S and 23S rRNA, cell
            locations, and number of phylogenetic groups for each
            intron type are tabulated. The highlights of this table
            are: 1) Of the 1184 known rRNA introns, 980 (83%) are
            group I, 21 (2%) are group II introns, and the
            remaining 183 (15%) are unclassified (see below). While
            only 2% of the rRNA introns are group II, 62%
            (728/1180) of the non-rRNA introns are group II. In
            addition to the group II introns, nearly all of the IC3
            introns do not occur in rRNAs. 2) The majority of the
            rRNA group I introns (851/980 = 87%) fall into one of
            three subgroups: I (276 introns), IC1 (415 introns),
            and IE (160 introns). 3) As noted earlier, there are
            three times as many 16S rRNA group I introns than 23S
            rRNA group I introns (753 vs. 227). 4) Among the three
            cellular organelles in eucaryotes, 1010 introns (85%)
            occur in the nucleus, 133 (11%) in the mitochondria,
            and 41 (4%) in the chloroplasts. 5) The subgroups IC1,
            IC3 and IE are only present in the nucleus, while the
            IA, IB, IC2, ID, and II subgroups occur almost
            exclusively in chloroplasts and/or mitochondria.
            The 183 introns described in rRNA Introns Table 2 as
            "Unclassified" merit special attention. All of these
            introns do not fall into either the group I and group
            II categories; however, two notable groups of introns
            are included within the "Unclassified" category. The
            first is a series of 43 introns occurring in Archaeal
            rRNAs (the Archaeal introns). Thirty-one of the known
            Archaeal introns are found in 16S rRNA and the
            remaining twelve are from 23S rRNA exons. The Archaeal
            introns range in length from 24 to 764 nucleotides,
            with an average length of 327 nucleotides. The second
            group contains 121 spliceosomal introns found in fungal
            rRNAs. 92 spliceosomal introns are from 16S rRNA and 29
            are from 23S rRNA; the lengths of these introns range
            from 49 to 292 nucleotides. A future version of this
            database will include both of these groups as separate,
            distinct entries. Both the Archaeal and splicesomal
            introns occur only in nuclear rRNA genes and tend to
            occur at unique sites; the lone exception is the
            spliceosomal intron from 
            Dibaeis baeomyces nuclear 23S
            rRNA position 787, a position where a group IIB intron
            occurs in mitochondrial 
            Marchantia polymorpha rRNA. The
            Unclassified group contains 21 introns that do not fall
            into any of the four previously discussed categories
            (group I, group II, Archaeal, or spliceosomal),
            including all four mitochondrial introns in this
            group.
            rRNA Introns Table 2 expands the presentation by
            providing links to twenty additional tables (H-3E.7),
            each of which provides expanded information about a
            specific intron type. The organism name, exon, intron
            position, cell location, and complete phylogeny are
            accessible for each intron from these tables. These
            online tables are dynamically updated daily as
            information about new introns is made available.
          
          
            3E. rRNA Introns Table 3: Phylogenetic
            Distribution
            The distribution of introns on the phylogenetic tree
            is tabulated in rRNA Introns Table 3A (H-3E.8) and 3B
            (H-3E.9). rRNA Introns Table 3A reveals the ratio of
            the number of rRNA introns per rRNA gene for the
            nuclear, chloroplast, and mitochondrial encoded RNAs
            for the major phylogenetic groups. The most noteworthy
            distributions are: 1) The majority (96%) of the rRNA
            introns occur in Eucarya, followed by the Archaea, and
            the Bacteria. 2) Only one rRNA intron has been
            documented in the Bacteria; due to the large number of
            rRNA gene sequences that have been determined, the
            ratio of rRNA introns per rRNA gene is essentially zero
            for the bacteria. 3) The frequency of introns in
            Archaea rRNAs is higher, with 43 examples documented as
            of December 2001. Within the Archaea, there is a higher
            ratio of rRNA introns in the Desulfurococcales and
            Thermoproteales subbranches in the Crenarchaeota
            branch. 4) For the three primary phylogenetic groups,
            the highest ratio of rRNA introns per rRNA gene is for
            the Eucarya, and for the phylogenetic groups within the
            Eucarya that have significant numbers of rRNA
            sequences, the ratio is highest in the fungi. Here, the
            ratios of rRNA introns per rRNA gene are similar
            between the nucleus and mitochondria (1.34 for the
            nucleus, 1.20 for the mitochondria). A significant
            number of rRNA introns occurs in the plants, with
            similar ratios of rRNA intron/rRNA gene for the
            nucleus, chloroplast, and mitochondria (0.36 for the
            nucleus, 0.38 for the chloroplast, and 0.34 for the
            mitochondria). In sharp contrast with the fungi and
            plants, only one intron has been documented in an
            animal rRNA, occurring within the 
            Calliphora vicina nuclear-encoded
            23S-like rRNA (GenBank accession number K02309).
            Each of the two special "Unclassified" rRNA intron
            groups has a specific phylogenetic bias. Archaeal rRNA
            introns, which have unique sequence and structural
            characteristics [ 83 ] , have not yet been observed
            within the Euryarchaeota or Korarchaeota; in fact, no
            non-Archaeal introns have been found in Archaea rRNAs
            to date. Splicesomal rRNA introns have only been
            reported in 31 different genera in the Ascomycota [ 84
            ] . rRNA Introns Table 3A also presents the numbers of
            (complete or nearly so) rRNA sequences in the same
            phylogenetic groups in order to address the question of
            sampling bias. Two important caveats to this data must
            be considered. First, the numbers of rRNA sequences are
            an underestimate, since many rRNA introns are published
            with only short flanking exon sequences and do not meet
            the 90% completeness criterion for inclusion in this
            rRNA sequence count. The second caveat is that many
            rRNA sequences contain multiple introns (see rRNA
            Introns Table 4 and related discussion, below, for more
            information). Of the 51 phylogenetic group/cell
            location combinations shown in rRNA Introns Table 3
            that may contain rRNA introns, 15 (29%) have a
            intron:rRNA sequence ratio greater than 1.0, indicating
            a bias toward introns within those groups. Introns are
            comparatively rare within the 26 (51%) groups that have
            a ratio below 0.3; ten of these 26 groups contain no
            known rRNA introns. Ten (20%) of the groups have
            intermediate ratios (between 0.3 and 1.0).
            A more detailed phylogenetic distribution is
            available in rRNA Introns Table 3B (H-3E.10). The first
            three fields contain levels 2, 3, and 4 of the NCBI
            phylogeny, followed by fields for the genus of the
            organism, cell location, exon (16S or 23S rRNA), and
            intron type. Each of these classifications include a
            link to the complete details (organism name, phylogeny,
            cell location, exon, intron position, intron number,
            accession number, and structure diagram (when
            available)) for the intron sequences in that group.
          
          
            3E. rRNA Introns Table 4: Number of Introns per
            Exon
            rRNA Introns Table 4 presents the number of introns
            per rRNA gene (H-3E.11). While more than 80% of the
            documented rRNA genes do not have an intron, 646 16S
            and 182 23S rRNAs have at least one intron.
            Approximately 75% (623) of these genes have a single
            intron, 15% (127) have two introns, 0.5% (40) have
            three, 0.25% (20) have four, 0.1% (11) have five, two
            rRNA genes have 6, 7 or 8 introns, and one rRNA gene
            has 9 introns.
            To determine the amount of bias in the distribution
            of introns among their exon sequences, the Poisson
            distribution (here, μ is the mean frequency of introns
            for a particular exon and 
            x is the target number of introns
            per rRNA gene) has been used to calculate the number of
            rRNA sequences expected to contain a given number of
            introns (rRNA Introns Table 4). Based upon this data,
            no rRNA sequences are expected to contain four or more
            introns; in fact, we see 38 sequences that contain
            these large numbers of introns. The observed numbers of
            sequences exceed the expected values for all but one
            category: fewer rRNAs contain only one intron than
            expected.
            The two molecules (16S and 23S rRNA) show a
            differing trend with respect to cell location for those
            sequences containing large numbers of introns. In 16S
            rRNA, only nuclear genes (ten) have been observed to
            contain five or more introns; indeed, of the 57 genes
            containing three or more introns, only two are not
            nuclear (both of these are mitochondrial). In 23S rRNA,
            the trend is both opposite and weaker; of the thirteen
            rRNA sequences containing four or more introns, five
            are nuclear (containing five introns), with four
            chloroplast and four mitochondrial genes comprising the
            remaining eight sequences.
            rRNA Introns Table 4 provides access to seventeen
            additional tables (H-3E.12), which each present the
            complete information for every intron within a
            particular class ( 
            e.g., 16S rRNA genes containing
            two introns), grouped by their exons. As with the other
            online tables, this information will be updated daily
            to reflect new intron sequences that are added to this
            database.
            The final components of the "rRNA Introns" page are
            16S and 23S rRNA secondary structure diagrams that show
            the locations for all of the known rRNA introns
            (H-3E.13). The information collected here on the "rRNA
            Introns" page is the basis for two detailed analyses
            that will be published elsewhere: 1) the spatial
            distribution of introns on the three dimensional
            structure of the 16S and 23S rRNA (Jackson 
            et al., manuscript in
            preparation); and 2) the statistical analysis of the
            distribution of introns on the rRNA (Bhattacharya 
            et al., manuscript in
            preparation).
          
          
            3F. Group 1/11 Intron distributions
            For the CRW Site project, we collect group I and II
            introns and all other introns that occur in the
            ribosomal RNA. The "Intron Distribution Data" page
            contains three tables that compare intron types,
            phylogeny, exon, and cell location.
            Intron Distribution Table 1 maps "Intron Type" vs.
            "Phylogeny" (and "Cell Location;" H-3F.1). Group I and
            II intron data are highlighted with yellow and blue
            backgrounds, respectively. The phylogenetic divisions
            are also split into the three possible cellular
            locations (nuclear, chloroplast, and mitochondria). A
            few of the highlights are:
            1) the Eukaryota contain the majority (2218 / 2349 =
            94%) of the introns in the CRW RDBMS. 2) The Archaea
            have 42 introns that have unique characteristics and
            are called "Archaeal introns." 3) Group I introns are
            present in eukaryotes (nuclear-, chloroplast-, and
            mitochondrial-encoded genes) and in Bacteria. Group II
            introns have only been observed in Bacteria and in
            Eukaryotic chloroplast and mitochondrial genes.
            Intron Distribution Table 2 shows "Intron Type" vs.
            "Exon" (and "Cell Location;" H-3F.2). Again, group I
            and II intron data are highlighted with yellow and blue
            backgrounds, respectively. In this table, the exon
            types are split into the three possible cellular
            locations (nuclear, chloroplast, and mitochondria). As
            of December 2001, the most obvious trend is that the
            exons with the most Group I introns are 16S rRNA (900),
            leucine tRNA (337), 23S rRNA (284), ribosomal protein
            S16 (214), and ribosomal protein L16 (152).
            Intron Distribution Table 3 compartmentalizes the
            intron data by "Phylogeny" and "Exon" (and "Cell
            Location;" H-3F.3). In this table, color is used to
            highlight the three phylogenetic domains (Archaea in
            yellow, Bacteria in blue, and Eukaryota in green). As
            in Intron Distribution Table 2, the exon types are
            split into the three possible cellular locations
            (nuclear, chloroplast, and mitochondria).
            Each of these three tables is dynamically created
            from a specific series of RDBMS queries on a daily
            basis. As of December 2001, links connecting to the
            specific RDBMS results are not available.
          
        
        
          4. Data access systems
          
            4A. RDBMS (Standard)
            The "Standard" interface is the most fundamental of
            our interfaces to the CRW RDBMS information. While the
            restricted, specialized interface to the RDBMS
            information in Section 3A requires minimal instruction
            to use, the standard interface, with its ability to
            cull out all arrangements of information from the
            different fields with sophisticated search queries and
            output field sortings, requires a quick lesson for its
            operation. The selection process has three stages: 1)
            selection of attribute fields to display; 2)
            determination of values for the search; and 3)
            adjustment of the output field sort order.
            A detailed explanation for each of the attributes is
            available from the links to the attribute names. This
            information is shown in the right frame. Additional
            examples of this system are available online.
            Step 1. At the onset, the user selects the fields to
            be displayed on the screen and then clicks the "Go"
            button. While the user can select the individual fields
            ( 
            e.g., "Organism" or "Phylogeny"),
            for most applications the "QrRNA" (query rRNA),
            "Qintron" (query intron), or "All" options will
            automatically click the appropriate fields that are
            most important for searching for ribosomal RNA or group
            I and II intron entries.
            Step 2. Select values for the fields or attributes.
            The acceptable values for the attributes in our RDBMS
            system are shown on the main frame of the query page
            (for list- and button-driven fields) or, for text input
            fields, can be determined with the "V" (values) button
            on the right side of the main frame; the results are
            displayed in the right frame (see Figure 3and
            H-4A.1).
            • The values for cellular location are Chl
            (chloroplast), Cya (cyanelle), Mit (mitochondria), Nuc
            (nuclear), and Vir (viral); each can be selected by
            simply checking the box to the left of its name.
            • The values for the attributes RNA Type, ORF (open
            reading frame), Secondary Structures (entries
            with/without secondary structure diagrams),
            Results/Page, and Color Display are also displayed on
            the main frame, and can be selected by clicking the
            appropriate box or button.
            The values for other attributes such as RNA Class,
            Sequence Length, and Exon can be determined by
            selecting one or more of the values in the scroll box.
            The values for these attributes can also be found by
            clicking the "V" button associated with each attribute.
            For example, clicking on the "Exon" "V" button will
            reveal, in the right frame, all of the exons that are
            contained in our database. The same exons are present
            in the scroll box.
            • The values displayed for any one attribute are
            dependent on the settings of the other attributes. For
            example, when only rRNA is selected for the "RNA Type,"
            then there are no values for "Exon." All of the
            possible exon values are displayed when "Intron" is the
            selected "RNA Type," while only a subset of the
            possible exon values are shown when Mit (mitochondria)
            is the selected "Cell Location." Note: no selection for
            an attribute signifies to this system that all of the
            values are possible.
            The values present in our database for the
            attributes "Organism," "Phylogeny" (except for the
            first level - Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukaryota - that
            can be selected from the main frame), "Common Name"
            (except for the first level: "Animals,"
            "Fungi&Plants," "Protists"), "Accession Number,"
            "Intron Position," and "Comment" can only be observed
            in the right frame after clicking the "V" button.
            • The values selected with the mouse in the right
            frame will appear in the appropriate attribute
            field.
            • The values for each attribute are dependent on the
            settings for the other attributes. For example, if
            there are many values for the "Organism" field,
            selecting Archaea in the "Phylogeny" field will reduce
            the number of names in the "Organism" field to just
            those that are in this phylogenetic group.
            • The number of possible values for an attribute can
            also be constrained by entering only part of a value in
            the field. For example, typing 'Esch' in the "Organism"
            field will output several organism names that contain
            'Escherichia' when the "V" button is clicked. Typing
            "coli" in this field will list all organism names that
            contain "coli," as either part of a name or a complete
            word.
            • Note that the system is case sensitive for all
            fields except "Common Name." The text 'esch' in the
            same "Organism" field will not output 'Escherichia' in
            the right frame.
            The "Phylogeny" field with the values frame on the
            right was developed to allow the user to navigate
            through the phylogenetic tree. The information for the
            "Phylogeny" and "Common Name" fields is downloaded from
            the NCBI (see Materials and Methods; this information
            is downloaded daily to assure that we have the most
            current version of this data). There are two general
            modes of operation.
            For mode one, you can systematically navigate
            through the phylogenetic tree to the selected goal
            point. For example, to get to the last phylogenetic
            group that contains 
            Homo sapiens and gorillas, the
            user would click on the "Eukaryota" phylogeny button,
            then click on the "Fungi/Metazoa group" link in the
            right frame, followed by the "Metazoa," "Eumetazoa,"
            "Bilateria," "Coelomata," "Deuterostomia," "Chordata,"
            "Craniata," "Vertebrata," "Gnathostomata,"
            "Teleostomi," "Euteleostomi," "Sarcopterygii,"
            "Tetrapoda," "Amniota," "Mammalia," "Theria,"
            "Eutheria," "Primates," "Catarrhini," and "Hominidae"
            links. The phylogenetic group Hominidae contains the
            genera Gorilla, Pan (chimpanzees), Pongo, and Homo (see
            Figure 3, H-4A.1, and H-4A.2). This type of navigation
            is useful when you know the links that will get you to
            the desired goal point; otherwise, mode two can help
            you jump to the appropriate node in the phylogenetic
            tree.
            For the second mode, you type all or part of the
            name of an organism or phylogenetic group that is close
            to the phylogenetic node you want. For example, type
            "Homo sapiens" in the "Phylogeny" field and press the
            "V" button in the "Phylogeny" field. The right frame
            will display a few names; from these, select "Homo
            sapiens." The right frame now contains the entire
            phylogenetic path from the base of the tree to Humans
            (Figure 3and H-4A.1).
            The "Common Name" attribute can also help identify
            organism names in the CRW RDBMS. As with the phylogeny
            operation, two general modes for determining the values
            are available. For the first, the user would type the
            presumed common name in the "Common Name" field, and
            click the "V" button. A few general examples are: worm,
            fish, cat, dog, and human. More specific examples are:
            common earthworm ( 
            Lumbricus terrestris ), European
            polecat ( 
            Mustela putorius ), and duckbill
            platypus ( 
            Ornithorhynchus anatinus ). These
            names must be in the "Common Name" database for the
            sequence entry to be identified with this method. In
            contrast, the second mode is intended to identify
            larger groups of organisms. The three buttons in the
            "Common Name" field ("Animals," "Fungi&Plants,"
            "Protists;" H-4A.3) each reveal various low-level
            common names in the right frame that are arranged in a
            pseudo-phylogenetic structure. For example, a few of
            the lower animals (sponges, flatworms, 
            etc. ) are listed when the
            "Animals" button is pressed, in addition to the
            Protostomia, Deuterostomia, and organisms nested within
            these groups (Arthropoda, chordates, vertebrates,
            Mammals, 
            etc.; H-4A.3). Accordingly, the
            "Fungi&Plants" and "Protists" buttons reveal the
            major groups of organisms within their respective
            groups. For the latter mode of operation, the user
            selects one of these common names, such as "Mammals."
            The phylogeny for this group then appears in the same
            right frame (cellular organisms, Eukaryota,
            Fungi/Metazoa group, Metazoa, Eumetazoa, Bilateria,
            Coelomata, Deuterostomia, Chordata, Craniata,
            Vertebrata, Gnathostomata, Teleostomi, Euteleostomi,
            Sarcopterygii, Tetrapoda, Amniota, Mammalia), along
            with the two phylogenetic groups within the Mammals
            (Mammalia), Prototheria and Theria. Another example is
            the common name "Mosses" in the Fungi&Plants.
            Selecting "Mosses" brings up the phylogeny for the
            Bryophyta. Note that these common names ( 
            i.e., "mammals" or "mosses") do
            not appear in the common name field in the output for
            the sequence entries that are within the Mammalian or
            Bryophyta phylogenetic groups. Thus, the common name
            field could be very useful to identify organisms and
            phylogenetically related organisms when you don't know
            their genus/species organism name or the phylogeny for
            that group of organisms.
            Step 3. The last, critical step before submitting a
            query is to select the sort order for the attributes in
            the output. While a query will yield the same number of
            results with any sort order, the choice of sort order
            can make answering questions easier. Take, for example,
            a search for all Eucarya rRNA entries. By default, the
            entries are sorted alphabetically first by their
            phylogenetic classification, followed by organism name,
            cell location, and last by their RNA class. In
            contrast, the sort orders <phylogeny, organism name,
            cell location, and RNA class> and <organism name,
            RNA class, phylogeny, and cell location> produce
            significantly different orders and overall arrangements
            for the same set of entries (see online examples); the
            second sorting is more useful when searching for a
            particular organism, since its exact location on the
            phylogenetic tree may not be known to the user. The
            output page (H-4A.2) reveals the search strategy and
            attribute sort order at the bottom of the page. The
            default sort order for the attributes is shown on the
            "S" (or sort) buttons on the right side of the main
            frame (Figure 3and H-4A.1). The sort order is changed
            by simply clicking the "S" buttons in the order the
            attributes are to be sorted. The resulting sort order
            for the attributes are shown in the small text box to
            the left of each attribute's S button; alternatively,
            you can type numbers into these boxes to set the sort
            order. The alphabetical/numerical order for any
            attribute can be reversed (z -> a, high number ->
            low number) by checking the box in the "R" (or reverse)
            column to the right of the Sort buttons. Finally, the
            sortings can be reset to the default values by clicking
            the "Sort Reset" button at the top of the query
            page.
            Before submitting the query, a few attributes
            deserve more attention.
            • Secondary Structures: a comparative secondary
            structure model has been developed for more than 400 of
            the sequence entries (see Section 3). The 'secondary
            structure' attribute near the bottom of the query page
            is an option to output 
            all sequence and structure
            entries, only those entries 
            with a secondary structure, or
            entries 
            without a secondary structure
            diagram.
            • Results/Page: the number of entries per output
            page can be modulated. While the system defaults to 50
            entries per page, the maximum number of entries per
            output page can be set to 20, 100, 200, and 400. The
            user can scroll to those entries that do not appear on
            the first page by selecting the "Next" button on the
            left bottom frame in the output window and use the
            "Previous" button in the same frame to move toward the
            first page, as necessary.
            • Color Display: to help distinguish the organism
            names on the output pages, the entries have the same
            color when the organism names are the same. The colors
            (pink and white) alternate for changes in the organism
            names in the output entries.
            • Group ID and Group Class: these two attributes are
            currently not fully functional; thus, we do not
            encourage their use at this time.
            • RNA Type/Class: currently, we do not have data
            entries for the following RNA Types and Classes: mRNA,
            tRNA, SnRNA, and Other.
            After clicking the submit button at the top or
            bottom of the query page, a new window will open. This
            window distributes the results into three frames
            (H-4A.2). The main frame contains the sequence and
            structure entries that satisfy the search query. The
            frame in the lower left indicates the number of entries
            shown in the window and the entry numbers currently
            shown, and, if necessary, contains buttons to scroll to
            the next or previous set of entries. The third frame at
            the bottom middle-right displays the total number of
            entries that satisfy the query, the search strategy and
            the sort order for this query.
            The three formats for the secondary structure
            diagrams, PostScript, PDF, and BPSEQ (see Section 1A
            and the online help from the "Secondary Structure" and
            "StrDiags" links on the RDBMS query and results pages)
            can be retrieved from the results window. The system
            defaults to PostScript when the secondary structure
            link is clicked; PDF or BPSEQ files can be obtained
            instead from the structure link by selecting the
            corresponding radio button at the top left section of
            the main frame. An explanation of the structure link
            names (d.5, d.l6, d.235, d.233, b.Il, and a.I2) and the
            longer names that are associated with the downloaded
            structure files is also available online.
            The GenBank accession number for each entry is a
            link to a new window that retrieves the specified entry
            from NCBI. Sequence entries with more than one GenBank
            number contain a "m" to the right of the accession
            number. Clicking the "m" link opens a new window with
            all of the GenBank numbers associated with this
            sequence.
            Each entry is associated with a NCBI phylogeny
            listing that can be retrieved in a new window by
            clicking the "m" button in the Phylogeny column. This
            listing also contains the known common names associated
            with each level of the phylogenetic tree (H-4A.4). The
            phylogeny for all of the entries in the results window
            is available in a new window when the "M" button in the
            header line of the phylogeny field is clicked.
          
          
            4B. RDBMS (PhyloBrowser)
            The PhyloBrowser interface to the CRW RDBMS was
            developed to facilitate the identification and
            retrieval of sequence and structure entries that are
            associated with specific phylogenetic groups. While the
            Standard interface will reveal all sequence entries for
            any one phylogenetic group, it does not show the
            phylogenetic groups that do not have the requested
            sequences; the PhyloBrowser interface displays the
            entire phylogenetic tree, including those branches that
            do not have corresponding entries. This interface is
            based on the Taxonomy Browser developed by NCBI
            http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/taxonomyhome.html/and
            uses the NCBI taxonomy database [ 60 61 ] . Here, we
            describe the PhyloBrowser interface, ways to navigate
            through the phylogenetic data, and how to retrieve RNA
            information using this system.
            The PhyloBrowser uses three frames (Figure 4and
            H-4B.1). At the bottom of the page is the Results Frame
            (white background), which displays the selected portion
            of the phylogenetic tree and any RNA information. In
            the upper left is the Selection Frame (pink
            background), where the user can select the phylogenetic
            and RNA information shown in the Results Frame. Help is
            provided in the Help Frame, at the upper right (blue
            background).
            Starting at the root, the entire phylogenetic tree
            can be navigated with this system. The base
            phylogenetic level name is shown in green. The number
            of phylogenetic levels displayed (below the base level)
            can be modulated from one (the default) to five levels
            using the "Display Phylogenetic Levels" control in the
            Selection Frame. The phylogenetic level number for each
            group is shown in red preceding the phylogenetic group
            name, and common name information, where available, is
            shown in black text in parentheses after the group
            name. Each phylogenetic group name is a link that
            reveals additional phylogenetic levels (Figure 4and
            H-4B.1), allowing the user to navigate onto the
            branches of the phylogenetic tree.
            In addition to this mode of transversing the
            phylogenetic tree, starting at the root and knowing the
            pathway to the desired end point, this system has the
            facility to jump to specific places in the phylogenetic
            tree. The user can enter a partial or complete
            scientific or common name in the white text field in
            the lower, purple-colored panel of the Selection Frame
            ( 
            e.g., "human;" see H-4B.2). Once
            the appropriate scientific or common name radio button
            is set, different names that satisfy the user-entered
            text can be viewed in the Results Frame by checking the
            "View" box. Clicking the appropriate name in the
            Results Frame will enter that name into the text field;
            unchecking the "View" check box and clicking "Submit"
            will reveal the phylogenetic branch for this organism
            (H-4B.3).
            To navigate toward the root of the phylogenetic
            tree, click the "Parents" button in the Selection
            Frame. This will open a new window with the complete
            NCBI phylogeny from the root to the level of the
            organism of interest. This window (H-4B.4) also reveals
            the phylogenetic level number and common names. Simply
            clicking on a node name in this window ( 
            e.g., the "Eutheria" node in
            H-4B.4) will reveal this section of the phylogenetic
            tree in the Results Frame.
            RNA information can be mapped onto the phylogenetic
            tree in the Results Frame at any time. In the white
            panel in the Selection Frame, the user can choose to
            view six RNA types (5S, 16S, and 23S rRNA; group I, II
            and other introns) from five cellular locations
            (chloroplast, cyanelle, mitochondria, nucleus, and
            viral) by checking the boxes to the left of the desired
            selections. After clicking the white "Submit" button,
            all entries that satisfy the RNA type and cell location
            selections are mapped onto the phylogenetic tree in the
            Results Frame (H-4B.3). There, the numbers of sequences
            and structure diagrams available in our CRW RDBMS are
            shown adjacent to each phylogenetic group name at all
            levels of the phylogenetic tree and enclosed in
            brackets; the format of this information for each
            individual RNA type is: [cell location, # sequences/#
            structures, cell location, # sequences/# structures,
            ...]. The RNA types are indicated in different colors
            (rRNA: 5S, green; 16S, red; 23S, blue; introns: group
            I, black; II, brown; other intron types, magenta) and
            the cell locations are abbreviated (N, nucleus; M,
            mitochondria; C, chloroplast; Y, cyanelle; V, viral).
            These values in brackets link to the Standard RDBMS
            results page, as described in the previous section, and
            allow the user to view the available sequence and
            structure information. The PhyloBrowser page (H-4B.3)
            reveals the 
            "Homo sapiens" phylogenetic group
            with the number of sequences and structures available
            in our CRW RDBMS for RNA types ( 
            e.g., 16S and group I introns)
            that are present in the selected cell locations ( 
            e.g., Chl, Mit, Nuc).
            Additional documentation for the use of this page is
            available from the PhyloBrowser page. A short
            description is displayed in the top-right frame by
            placing the mouse over each of the attributes
            ("Molecule," "Cell Location," "Phylogenetic Levels,"
            "Go to Parents," "Query," and "Acknowledgement").
            Additional information for each of these attributes is
            then displayed in a new window by clicking on either
            the attribute link or the additional information link
            in the top-right frame (Figure 4and H-4B.1).
          
          
            4C. RNA Structure Query System
            Currently, we are unable to reliably and accurately
            predict an RNA structure from its underlying sequence
            due in part to the lack of more fundamental RNA
            structure rules that relate families of RNA sequences
            with specific RNA structural elements. Given this
            limitation, we have utilized comparative analysis to
            determine that RNA structure that is common to a set of
            functionally and structurally equivalent sequences.
            This analysis, as mentioned earlier, is very accurate:
            nearly 98% of the basepairings in our 16S and 23S rRNA
            comparative structure models are present in the
            high-resolution crystal structures for the 30S [ 44 ]
            and 50S [ 45 ] ribosomal subunits. In the process of
            predicting these comparative structure models, we have
            determined a large number of 5S, 16S, and 23S rRNA and
            group I intron comparative structure models from
            sequences that are representative of all types of
            structural variations and conservation. Thus, with the
            correct rRNA structure models and a large sampling of
            structurally diverse structure models, we now want to
            decipher more relationships between RNA sequences and
            RNA structural elements. Toward this end, we developed
            a system for the identification of biases in short
            sequences associated with simple structural elements in
            our set of comparative structure models. The first set
            of examples reveals a sampling of structure-based
            sequence biases. Recently, we utilized this system to
            identify and quantitate the following biases for
            adenosines in the Bacterial 16S and 23S rRNA
            covariation-based structure models [ 63 ] : 1)
            approximately 2/3 of the adenosines are unpaired; 2)
            more than 50% of the 3' ends of loops in the 16S and
            23S rRNA have an A; 3) there is a bias for adenosines
            to be adjacent to other adenosines (66% of these are at
            two unpaired positions, and 15% of these are at
            paired/unpaired junctions); and 4) the majority of the
            As at the 3' end of loops are adjacent to a paired G.
            These results were discerned with this system and are
            shown in part in Figure 5and H-4C.
            This RNA sequence/structure query system has three
            primary fields of input to be selected by the user: the
            RNA type, phylogenetic group/cell location, and the
            nucleotide/structural element. The options for each of
            these fields are listed in Table 5. The system
            currently supports four RNA types (5S, 16S, and 23S
            rRNAs, and group I introns) and five phylogenetic
            groups/cell locations (Bacteria, Archaea, Eucarya
            nuclear-encoded, mitochondrial, and chloroplast). Any
            combination and number of RNA types and
            phylogenetic/cell location groups can be selected,
            although at least one RNA type and one
            phylogenetic/cell location group must be selected. The
            bacterial 16S and 23S rRNAs were selected for the
            examples in Figure 5and H-4C. Five nucleotide
            categories are searchable: single nucleotides, (two)
            adjacent nucleotides, base pairs, three nucleotides,
            and four nucleotides. Each category can be searched
            against a defined set of structural elements, as
            outlined in Table 5. The structural elements for these
            nucleotide categories are based on 1) positions that
            are paired and unpaired and 2) positions at the center
            or 5' and 3' ends of helices and loops.
            The sorting function dynamically ranks the
            nucleotide patterns. The resulting output reveals, for
            any of the selected structural elements, the most
            frequent nucleotide pattern, followed by other patterns
            in descending order to the least frequent nucleotide
            pattern. For the "A Story" example mentioned earlier,
            adenosine is the most frequent nucleotide at unpaired
            positions (42.64%), followed by G (23.6%), U (21.27%),
            and C (12.49%) (Figure 5and H-4C.1). These values are
            contained in the orange columns, and reveal the
            percentages for each of the nucleotides within each of
            the structural elements listed ( 
            i.e., paired, unpaired, 
            etc. ). This same figure reveals
            that 53.5% of the 3' end of loops contain an A. The
            unpaired to paired ratio is shown in yellow in Figure
            5and H-4C.1; this ratio is greatest for adenosines,
            where the value is nearly two ( 
            i.e., there are two unpaired
            adenosines for every A that is paired), and lowest for
            C, where less than three out of ten cytosines are
            unpaired. In contrast with the percentage values in the
            orange boxes that reveal the percentage of nucleotides
            within each structural element, the percentages in the
            green boxes reveal the distribution of nucleotides in
            different structural elements for each nucleotide. For
            example, 33.76% of the adenosines are paired, while
            66.24% are unpaired. In contrast, 77.71% of the C's are
            paired and only 22.29% of the C's are unpaired.
            The most common adjacent nucleotides in any
            structural environment in the Bacterial 16S and 23S
            rRNAs are GG (9.86%; H-4C.2), while in loops the most
            common dinucleotides are AA (19.2%; H-4C.3), followed
            by GA (13.35%), UA (9.821%), AU (6.703%), 
            etc. The most frequent adjacent
            nucleotides at the 3'loop-5'helix junction are AG
            (24.99%; H-4C.4), followed by AC (13.28%), GG (8.28%), 
            etc. For the adjacent AA
            sequences, nearly 75% occur in loops, while
            approximately 12% of the AA sequences occur in helices,
            another 12% occur at the 3'loop-5'helix junction, and
            less than 5% occur in 3'helix-5'loop junctions. Thus,
            these analyses of single and adjacent nucleotides
            reveal several strong biases in the distribution of
            nucleotides in different structural environments.
            The top section of the output page (Figure 5and
            H-4C.1) displays the types of data (RNA molecules and
            phylogenetic/cell location groups) that were selected
            and analyzed. This section also reveals the number of
            structure models that were analyzed; 175 16S and 71 23S
            rRNA structure models were analyzed in Figure 5and
            H-4C.
            A few of the other biases in the distribution of
            nucleotide patterns that were determined with this
            sequence/structure query system of our comparative
            structure models are displayed in Table 6. A more
            detailed accounting of this information is available
            online.
          
        
      
      
        Auxiliary components of the CRW site
        In addition to the sections described above, the CRW
        Site also includes online appendices to work published
        elsewhere. The "Structure, Motifs, and Folding" section
        presently contains three RNA motif projects ("U-Tum" [ 62 ]
        , "A Story" [ 63 ] , and "AA.AG@helix.ends" [ 64 ] ) and
        two RNA folding projects ("16S rRNA Folding" [ 65 ] and
        "23S rRNA Folding" [ 66 ] ). In the "Phylogenetic Structure
        Analysis" section, additional information for three
        publications is available: "Mollusk Mitochondria" [ 67 ] , 
        "Polytoma Leucoplasts" [ 68 ] , and
        "Algal Introns" [ 69 ] .
      
      
        Conclusions
        Nearly 10 years ago, our initial goals for our RNA web
        page was to disseminate some of the comparative information
        we collected and analyzed for our prediction of 16S and 23S
        rRNA structure with comparative analysis. With dramatic
        increases in the number of ribosomal RNA sequences, we
        developed a relational database system to organize basic
        information about each sequence and structure entry to
        maintain an inventory of our collection, and to retrieve
        any one or set of entries that satisfy the conditions of
        the search. In parallel, with the significant advancements
        in computational and networking hardware and software, our
        need for more detailed and quantitative comparative
        information for each RNA molecule under study, and our
        interest in studying more RNA molecules beyond 16S and 23S
        rRNA, we have greatly expanded our web site, and named it
        the "Comparative RNA Web" (CRW) Site.
        The major types of information available for each RNA
        molecule are:
        1) the current comparative RNA structure model;
        2) nucleotide and base pair frequency tables for all
        positions in the reference structure;
        3) secondary structure conservation diagrams that reveal
        the extent of conservation in the RNA sequence and
        structure;
        4) representative secondary structure diagrams for
        organisms from phylogenetic groups that span the
        phylogenetic tree and reveal the major forms of structural
        variation;
        5) a semi-complete/partial collection of publicly
        available sequences that are 90% or more complete; and
        6) sequence alignments.
        At this time, we maintain the most current comparative
        sequence and structure information about the 16S and 23S
        rRNA. The other RNA molecules we maintain (5S rRNA, tRNA,
        and group I and II introns) are not as advanced at the time
        of this writing.
        Our future aims for the CRW Site are to: 1) maintain a
        complete collection of sequences in our database management
        system for each of the RNAs under study; 2) once or twice a
        year, release new sequence alignments that contain A)
        improvements (if necessary) in the positioning of the
        sequences that are associated with similar structural
        elements, and B) increases in the number of aligned
        sequences; 3) generate more secondary structure diagrams
        for sequences that span the phylogenetic tree and reveal
        all forms of structural variation; 4) generate more
        secondary structure conservation diagrams and nucleotide
        and base pair frequency tables for more phylogenetic groups
        ( 
        e.g. Fungi: Basidiomycota,
        Ascomycota, and Zygomycota); 5) update the structure models
        when warranted by the analysis; 6) update current
        nucleotide and base pair frequency tables when the
        alignments they are derived from have been updated, and
        generate more frequency tables for more phylogenetic groups
        (see "4)" above); 7) add new types of comparative RNA
        sequence/structure information and new modes of presenting
        the data; and 8) analyze more types of RNA molecules from a
        comparative perspective, and present this data in the same
        formats utilized for the RNA molecules currently
        supported.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Sequence collection
          The majority of the sequence alignments presented at
          the CRW Site were assembled in the Gutell laboratory. The
          alignments that were based on another laboratory's
          initial effort and enlarged and refined for the CRW
          project are: 1) the prokaryotic (Archaea and Bacteria)
          alignments for 16S rRNA [ 85 ] ; 2) the 5S rRNA
          alignments [ 55 ] ; and 3) the tRNA alignments [ 81 ] .
          The group I and II intron alignments were originally
          based upon sequences collected by Michel [ 32 34 ] .
          New rRNA and intron sequences were found by searching
          the nucleic acid sequence database at GenBank using the
          NCBI Entrez system http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Entrez/at
          least once per week with appropriate search criteria ( 
          e.g., "rrna" [Feature key] and
          "intron" [Feature key] to find introns that occur in
          rRNA). While the majority of the RNA sequences of
          importance to this database are available online at
          GenBank, a few sequences are only available in the
          literature ( 
          e.g., the 
          Urospora penicilliformis intron [
          86 ] ) or in a thesis; these sequences were manually

          entered into the appropriate sequence alignment. A few
          sequences were found in GenBank with the sequence
          similarity searching program BLAST [ 87 ] . At this time,
          we are only trying to identify all sequences that are
          more than 90% complete since all sequences that are less
          than 90% complete are not currently retrieved with the
          CRW RDBMS.
        
        
          Deviations in GenBank entries
          The majority of GenBank entries contain accurate
          annotations of the RNAs. However, some GenBank entries
          deviate from this norm in a variety of ways. In some
          entries, the presence of the rRNA was not annotated and
          the rRNA was found by searching for short sequences that
          are characteristic of that rRNA (a few examples).
          Sometimes, intron sequences are not annotated and were
          discovered during the alignment of the corresponding rRNA
          exons ( 
          e.g., the unannotated intron in the
          uncultured archaeon SAGMA-B 16S rRNA (AB050206) and many
          Fungi, including AF401965 [ 88 ] ). Other GenBank entries
          contain incorrect annotations for the RNAs; the
          boundaries may be misidentified by a small or large
          number of nucleotides.
        
        
          RNA sequence alignment and classification of intron
          sequences
          
            Alignment and determination of intron-exon
            boundaries
            The sequence alignments used for this analysis are
            maintained by us at the University of Texas; these
            alignments, containing all publicly available sequences
            used in the analysis, are or will be available from the
            CRW Site http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu(Table 2). rRNA,
            Type 1 tRNA, and intron sequences were manually aligned
            to maximize sequence and structural identity using the
            alignment editor AE2 (T. Macke, Scripps Clinic, San
            Diego, CA). The rRNA alignments are sorted by phylogeny
            and cell location, the intron alignments are sorted by
            subgroup, exon, insertion point (for rRNA introns), and
            phylogeny, and the tRNA alignments are sorted by
            aminoacyl type and phylogeny. Alignment of the rRNA
            exons (when available) between closely-related
            sequences provided an independent evaluation of the
            intron-exon borders for each intron-containing rRNA
            sequence; the large number of rRNA sequences in our
            collection and the high level of sequence conservation
            at intron insertion points provide great confidence in
            this evaluation.
          
          
            Classification of introns
            Group I and II intron sequences were classified into
            one of the structural subgroups defined by Michel [ 32
            34 ] or the more recently determined subgroup IE [ 82 ]
            based upon sequence and structural homology to
            previously-aligned sequences. Uncertainties in these
            assignments come from two main sources. First, some
            introns are referred to in rRNA GenBank entries without
            the intron sequence being provided; in these cases, we
            represent the intron as having length "NSEQ" (No
            SEQuence information) and accept the authors' major
            intron classification ( 
            e.g., group I or group II) but
            not the specific intron type ( 
            e.g., if an author classified an
            intron as IA1 and did not publish the sequence, our
            system designates its type as "I"). In the second case,
            we do have sequence information but cannot fully
            classify the intron with confidence; here, we provide
            the most plausible classification. The classifications
            "I" and "II," respectively, are group I and II introns
            of undefined subtype. An intron described as "IB' has
            the characteristic features of the IB subgroup but
            cannot be subclassified as IB1, IB2, IB3, or IB4. Those
            introns that do not belong to either group I or group
            II are generally classified as "Unknown" in the "RNA
            Class" field (see Section 4A and Table 5); included in
            this category are the Archaeal and spliceosomal
            introns. At present, the Archaeal and spliceosomal
            introns are identified with the phrases "Archaeal" and
            "spliceosomal," respectively, in the Comment field of
            the RDBMS; a standard designation for these introns
            will be added to a future version of the system.
            Although the introns in our collection have been
            judiciously placed into one of the intron subgroups and
            are roughly correct, these intron placements will be
            reanalyzed to assure the accurate assignment of
            subgroups.
          
          
            Identification of unannotated or misannotated
            introns, with examples
            Some examples of introns that were identified or
            clarified by the alignment process are: 1) 
            Aureoumbra lagunensis (U40258;
            the intron was annotated as an insertion); 2) 
            Exophiala dermatitidis (X78481;
            the intron was not annotated); and 3) 
            Chara sp. Qiu 96222 (AF191800;
            the intron annotations were shifted approximately 15
            positions toward the 5' end of the rRNA sequence).
          
          
            About TBD and NSEQ
            Information that could not be determined either from
            the GenBank entries or by using these methods is
            represented in the RDBMS system as TBD (To Be
            Determined). When a sequence is known but not available
            (for example, when an intron is inferred from a rRNA
            GenBank entry), the sequence length and percent
            completeness are instead represented as NSEQ (No
            SEQuence), to show that the sequence itself is not
            available.
          
        
        
          Database System
          
            Contents of the RDBMS (general and
            intron-specific)
            The relational database management system (RDBMS)
            available from the Comparative RNA Web Site
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edudescribed in this work
            utilizes the MySQL engine http://www.mysql.com/. The
            system contains vital statistics for each sequence
            (Table 4). The primary fields are: 1) organism name; 2)
            complete phylogeny; 3) cell location; 4) RNA type
            (general category; 
            e.g., rRNA or intron); 5) RNA
            class (more detailed identification; 
            e.g., 16S or IC1); 6) GenBank
            Accession Number (linked to GenBank); and 7) secondary
            structure diagrams for selected sequences.
            Intron-specific data stored in the system are the exon,
            intron number (index for multiple introns from a single
            exon), intron position (for rRNA introns only: the 
            E. coli (GenBank Accession Number
            J01695) equivalent position number immediately before
            the intron), and open reading frame presence. Note that
            only sequences that are at least 90% complete are made
            available through this system. The majority of this
            data is manually entered into the database system; one
            exception is the complete NCBI phylogeny database [ 60
            61 ] , which is automatically downloaded and
            incorporated into this system daily so that all RDBMS
            entries appear using the current NCBI scientific name
            for a given organism. Changes to the RDBMS phylogeny
            data are identified automatically during the
            incorporation process and then updated manually. Any
            changes made to the data become available to the public
            on the next day.
          
          
            Secondary Structure and Conservation
            Diagrams
            Secondary structure and conservation diagrams were
            developed entirely or in part with the interactive
            graphics program XRNA (Weiser & Noller, University
            of California, Santa Cruz). The PostScript files output
            by XRNA were converted into PDF using ghostscript
            (version 7.00;
            http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/index.htm).
          
        
        
          Computer details
          
            Hardware and software used
            The Comparative RNA Web Site
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.eduis hosted on a Sun
            Microsystems Enterprise 250 dual-processor server.
            Apache web server version 1.3.20, from the Apache
            Software Foundation http://www.apache.org/, provides
            the site's connectivity interface. The MySQL database
            (version 3.23.29; http://www.mysql.com/) provides the
            RDBMS functions. Web site statistics are collected
            using webalizer (version 2.01;
            http://www.mrunix.net/webalizer/).
          
          
            Authentication system
            The Comparative RNA Web Site has instituted an
            authorization system for its users. Information is
            collected to assist in web server administration and
            error tracking. On their initial visits, users will
            select a username, provide a current email address (for
            verificiation purposes), and review the terms and
            conditions for use of the CRW Site. An email will be
            sent to the provided email address containing a
            validation URL for that account. At this URL, the user
            may provide additional information; the system will
            then email an initial password to the user at the
            selected email account. The user then has the two
            pieces of information (username and password) necessary
            to log in and use the CRW Site. Once logged in, the
            user may change the password and update the user
            information at any time.
          
          
            URL rewriting
            We strongly encourage all users to access the
            Comparative RNA Web Site
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.eduusing its main address,
            http://www.rna.icmb.utexas.edu/, rather than through
            specific URLs. As the site grows, specific pages may be
            moved, changed, or deleted. As well, use of more
            specific URLs may not include the navigation system for
            the site, providing the user with a suboptimal
            operating experience of the entire site. Therefore, the
            system is configured to route an initial request for a
            more specific URL to an introductory page, which will
            offer users access to the main page and a selection of
            specific URLs.
          
        
      
      
        List of abbreviations
        CRW = Comparative RNA Web
        NCBI = National Center for Biotechnology
        Information.
        nt = nucleotide
        RDBMS = Relational Database Management System.
        URL = Uniform Resource Locator
      
    
  
