
  
    
      
        Background
        Atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease (CHD) have
        long been considered major contributors to morbidity and
        mortality in developed countries [ 1, 2, 3]. One noted
        exception is the low mortality of CHD in France,
        particularly the southwest region [ 4, 5, 6]. This
        phenomenon, commonly referred to as the French paradox, may
        be associated with high consumption of red wine [ 7, 8]. A
        negative correlation between CHD and alcohol consumption
        was first noted 25 years ago, and numerous studies since
        have confirmed a statistically significant inverse
        relationship between these two factors [ 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
        14]. 
        In vivo studies have shown that wine
        consumption, particularly red wine, is more effective in
        the prevention of CHD not seen with other forms of
        alcoholic beverages [ 15, 16, 17]. Accordingly, it has been
        postulated that naturally occurring components in wine
        might afford or contribute to its enhanced protection
        against CHD by targeting sites that participate in the
        etiology of CHD, including soluble blood components (LDL),
        cellular blood elements (platelets), or the vasculature
        itself (endothelium). Siemann and Creasy proposed that
        trans-resveratrol, a tri-hydroxy stilbene, in red wine
        exhibits cardioprotective properties [ 18] and can inhibit
        LDL oxidation [ 19], suppress smooth muscle proliferation [
        20], induce nitric oxide synthase expression [ 21] and
        block collagen-induced aggregation responses in washed
        platelets [ 22, 23, 24]. However, relatively few studies
        have been performed on the effects of resveratrol on
        vascular components such as the endothelial cells, which
        are known to play a critical role in maintaining the
        integrity and functioning of the vascular endothelium.
        Homeostasis of the vascular endothelium, both with respect
        to metabolic and physiologic activities, can be affected by
        overall nutritional status and by specific ingredients in
        the diet [ 25, 26, 27].
        The aims of the present study were to determine changes
        resulting from resveratrol:endothelial cell interaction. We
        observed that resveratrol induced significant cellular and
        biochemical changes in endothelial cells, which were
        accompanied by altered functional responsiveness to
        conditions simulating arterial flow. Since previous studies
        have shown several signaling molecule changes during
        reorganization of the endothelial cell cytoskeleton
        accompanying arterial shear stress [ 28, 29, 30, 31], we
        evaluated the same set of biochemical parameters in
        resveratrol-treated cells. Use of selective signaling
        pathway inhibitors allowed the demonstration that the
        cytoskeletal changes elicited by resveratrol depended on
        intracellular calcium and tyrosine kinase activity changes,
        and also appeared to be linked to integrity of actin
        microfilaments and microtubule network. Resveratrol
        treatment also led to activation of ERK1/2 MAP kinase,
        similar to changes induced by shear [ 30, 31]. Thus
        resveratrol may act by a mechanism(s) closely resembling
        that triggered by shear stress.
      
      
        Results
        
          Resveratrol induces morphologic change in
          endothelial cells
          Sterilized plastic 18 mm × 21 mm coverslips were
          seeded with BPAEC and treated 24 h later with various
          concentrations of resveratrol. Following an additional 2
          day of culture, the coverslips containing the attached
          BPAECs were fixed, stained with rhodamine-phalloidin, and
          mounted onto slides for analysis by confocal microscopy.
          The polyphenol (100 μM) had a distinct morphologic
          effect, changing the cells from a boxy, cobblestone-like
          appearance (panel A, Fig. 1) to an elongated, ellipsoidal
          shape with long, tortuous processes (panel B). As little
          as 25 μM resveratrol sufficed to induce these cellular
          changes, in passage 4-7 cells (compare panel C with panel
          A, Fig. 2). To quantify the percentages of cells with the
          elongated morphology, a minimum of 300 cells in
          representative microscopic field were counted and the
          results presented in Fig. 3. The percentage of cells
          showing the elongated phenotype is proportional to the
          concentration of resveratrol added to the culture.
          Treatment with resveratrol also suppressed growth of
          BPAEC (data not shown), as we previously reported [
          21].
        
        
          Resveratrol treatment leads to increased adherence
          of BPAEC under simulated arterial flow conditions
          To test whether functional changes may accompany the
          modified morphology, control and 2 day and 100 μM
          resveratrol-treated cells were exposed to 0 min
          (control), 2 min, or 5 min of simulated arterial shear
          stress using a parallel plate perfusion chamber (see
          Materials and Methods). Following the shear challenge,
          cells remaining attached were scored by staining with
          rhodamine-phalloidin, as described. Since the cells were
          evenly distributed throughout the area of the coverslip
          exposed to flow, representative pictures were taken of
          the confocal microscopy fields located directly in the
          center of the coverslip, and the number of cells were
          counted. As can be seen in Fig. 4, compared to the 0 min
          sample, a significant percentage of resveratrol-treated
          BPAEC remained attached to the plastic coverslips after 2
          min and 5 min flow challenge. In comparison, under
          identical experimental conditions, cells adhering to the
          coverslips decreased dramatically in controls, with
          virtually no cells remaining after a 5 min simulated
          flow. These results suggest that a functional alteration,
          measured by greater adherence of cells under simulated
          arterial flow conditions, accompanied the change in
          cellular phenotype, following treatment with
          resveratrol.
        
        
          Effect of cell signaling inhibitors on cell
          elongation induced by resveratrol
          Further insights into the nature of the
          resveratrol-induced morphologcial changes came from
          studies using selective inhibitors for different
          signaling pathways. These include: quin2-AM
          (intracellular [Ca 2+]), herbimycin A (tyrosine kinases),
          chelerythrine (PKC), cytochalasin D (actin
          microfilaments), and nocodazole (disassembly of
          microtubules). Cells were treated with inhibitors, at
          concentrations indicated in Materials and Methods, and
          then exposed to resveratrol. Representative confocal
          microscopy fields for both control and
          resveratrol-treated cells were counted for elongated and
          non-elongated cells. The inhibitors used noticeably
          suppressed cell growth (particularly treatment with
          cytochalasin D and nocodazole), particularly controls not
          treated with resveratrol. The degree of growth inhibition
          varied, depending on preparations of primary BPAEC.
          Interestingly, cells treated with resveratrol, which had
          to be reduced to 40 h because of adverse responses of
          control cells to inhibitors (see Materials and Methods),
          afforded better growth in samples containing the
          inhibitors. Table 1summarized results averaged from 4
          separate experiments, each performed with a different
          preparation of primary BPAEC. Since growth of control
          cells as well as their response to resveratrol and
          addition of inhibitors differed between BPAEC
          preparations, cells showing the elongated shape in each
          experiment were calculated as a percent of total cells
          counted (ranging from 60-700). The numbers obtained in
          this manner were used to calculate the mean (%)± SD, as
          shown. Addition of chelerythrine, an inhibitor of protein
          kinase C, caused a significant increase in percentage of
          elongated cells alone and did not affect morphologic
          response of cells to resveratrol. Inhibitors of
          intracellular [Ca 2+] and tyrosine kinase activity
          effectively reduced the percentage of elongated cells
          elicited by resveratrol. Results in Table 1further showed
          that cytoskeletal changes elicited by resveratrol also
          appeared to be linked to integrity of actin
          microfilaments and microtubule network as the morphologic
          changes were also substantially lowered in cells treated
          with cytochalasin D and nocodazole, which inhibit
          formation of actin microfilaments and microtubule
          network, respectively.
        
        
          Effect of resveratrol on ERK1/2 activation and
          eIF4E, eNOS expression
          Biochemical changes in resveratrol-treated BPAEC were
          assessed by western blot analyses. Fig. 5shows that in
          control cells, level of active ERK1/2-P remained
          relatively constant up to 48 h but showed a precipitous
          decline from 48 to 96 h (panel A). Under the same
          conditions, levels of total ERK1/2 (panel B), eIF4E
          (panel C), a downstream effector of ERK1/ERK2, and actin
          (panel E) showed no substantial change at all time points
          assayed, in control cells. Treatment with 25 μM and 100
          μM resveratrol prevented the decrease in active ERK1/2-P
          seen at 96 h (panel A, last 3 lanes). In addition, these
          concentrations of resveratrol markedly increased eNOS
          expression as early as 6-h, which reached maximum
          induction at 48-h, and remained substantially elevated at
          96-h (panel D). Quantification of relative changes of
          total ERK1/2, active ERK1/2-P, and eNOS as a function of
          time of treatment with two concentrations of resveratrol
          is depicted in Figure 6.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        
          Modulation of endothelial cell shape by
          resveratrol
          Size, shape, mutual orientation, and intercellular
          contacts in endothelium are not incidental and statistic
          events, but are precisely and dynamically regulated.
          Reversible change of endothelial cell shape, mutual
          orientation of cells in certain directions, changes in
          intercellular contacts, are controlled by a number of
          factors, such as, cooperative stimulation of the
          receptors or the systems of second messengers [ 32, 33],
          dietary ingredients, e.g., retinoids [ 34], exercise [
          35, 36], and fluid-imposed shear stress [ 37, 38, 39].
          For example, endothelial cells are known to elongate and
          reorient their cytoskeletons in the direction of flow as
          a normal physiological response to prolonged shear stress
          [ 29]. Results of the present studies show that treatment
          with resveratrol induces a morphologic change from a
          stellar to an elongated shape (Figure 1). It is tempting
          to speculate that appearance of such cellular phenotype
          involves formation of stress fibers, which would
          rearrange the cytoskeleton in ways that facilitate better
          anchoring of the BPAEC to the culture substratum and
          contribute to the ability of BPAEC to resist simulated
          arterial flow challenge. Only studies in the future would
          validate such a possibility. It is also interesting to
          note that the observed changes in resveratrol-treated
          BPAEC are similar to that described for EC subjected to
          arterial shear. We propose that this could represent a
          physiologically-relevant mechanism by which resveratrol,
          as a polyphenolic constituent of red wine, contributes to
          cardioprotection by inducing resistance to potential
          damage by shearing forces.
          The mechanism underlying this cytoskeletal
          rearrangement due to shear stress is ill-defined, but it
          has been found to be linked to tyrosine kinase activity,
          levels of intracellular calcium, intact actin
          microfilaments, and functional microtubule network, but
          is independent of protein kinase C, intermediate
          filaments, and stretch- and shear-activated
          mechanosensitive K +channels [ 28]. We therefore sought
          to determine whether a similar mechanism could account
          for the resveratrol-mediated endothelial shape change.
          Our approach involved using a number of selective
          inhibitors for various signaling pathway. These studies
          showed that quin2-AM ([Ca 2+] inhibitor), added together
          with resveratrol, clearly abolished the endothelial cell
          shape change induced by the polyphenol. In contrast,
          chelerythrine, a PKC inhibitor, which added alone
          triggered a significant shape change in BPAEC, had no
          effect on resveratrol-elicited morphological change
          (Table 1). Analyzed as a whole, these experiments suggest
          that the change in cellular phenotype, as a consequence
          of resveratrol:EC interaction, is dependent on Ca 2+,
          tyrosine kinases, and intact actin microfilament and
          microtubules. These results also raise the possibility
          that there is cellular heterogeneity within endothelial
          cells used in the studies, based on the fact that a
          subset displayed exquisite sensitivity to chelerythrine.
          Overall, these results support the notion that
          resveratrol and shear stress induce elongation of the EC
          cytoskeleton via an overlapping outside-in signaling
          mechanism.
          Prolonged shear stress leading to mechanotransduction
          signaling has been shown to activate the MAP kinase
          pathway in EC. Activation of ERK1 and ERK2, the major
          components of the MAPK pathway, presumably induces
          shear-specific transcription factors, such as c-fos/c-jun
          and NFκB, ultimately leading to changes in gene
          expression [ 30, 31]. Western blot analysis of control
          and 25 μM and 100 μM resveratrol-treated BPAEC showed
          that there was no increase in active ERK 1/2 at the 6 h
          and 2 day time points. Rather, the decline in activated
          ERK 1/2 seen from days 2 to 4 of control cells, was
          effectively suppressed by resveratrol, suggesting that
          the polyphenol may act by affecting the stability of
          active ERK1/2 (Figure 6). This may involve modulation of
          MAPK phosphatase-1 (MKP-1), a member of the
          immediate-early response gene product functioning as a
          dual specificity phosphase to reverse MAPK [ 40, 41, 42,
          43, 44], by resveratrol. Previously, it has been reported
          that MKP-1 is rapidly induced in rat carotid arterial
          wall following balloon catheter injury [ 45]. Since no
          noticeable change in active ERK1/2 occurred at the 6 h or
          2 day time points, where morphological changes clearly
          became visible, following treatment with resveratrol, it
          seems unlikely that the activation of MAPK is directly
          linked to the observed morphologic changes.
        
        
          Responses of cultured endothelial cells to arterial
          shear stress
          Another significant contribution of the present
          research is the demonstration that resveratrol promoted a
          greater adherence of BPAEC to the cultured vehicle 
          in vitro . 
          In vivo , such a cellular property
          could make endothelial cells less likely to dislodge to
          become part of a growing thrombotic plug. Restricted
          detachment could also imply that there is less
          degeneration of the endothelial cell monolayer, which, in
          turn, would reduce the exposure of the underlying
          subendothelial matrix components, thereby making platelet
          adhesion and aggregation less likely. The mechanism(s)
          responsible for the resveratrol-induced cellular
          properties remain to be further investigated. One
          possibility centers on modulation of the number of focal
          contact adhesion sites, and/or the effective
          redistribution of the focal contacts, as well as the
          increased production of the EC-specific integrin complex,
          by resveratrol, all of which could contribute to the
          cardioprotective mechanism of this polyphenol. However,
          it should be emphasized that these experiments involved
          growing EC on plastic, not on layers of subendothelial
          matrix components such as collagen or fibrinogen. The
          latter experimental format simulating a more
          physiologically relevant subendothelial matrices may
          yield vastly different results. These possibilities
          warrant further investigation.
        
        
          Induction of eNOS and modulation of EC growth by
          resveratrol
          The endothelial cell lining of the blood vessel is
          extremely sensitive to damage from reactive oxygen
          species (ROS), the results of which are losses of both
          microvascular metabolic function and barrier properties [
          46]. To minimize such oxidant damage, cells rely on the
          production of nitric oxide (NO) by the enzyme nitric
          oxide synthase (eNOS). Biological functions attributed to
          NO include vasodilation [ 47], inhibition of platelet
          adhesion and aggregation [ 48], reduction of expression
          of adhesion molecules and chemokines [ 49, 50, 51, 52],
          and suppression of cell growth and migration [ 53, 54].
          Therefore, we investigated whether resveratrol treatment
          could lead to increased eNOS expression in endothelial
          cells. We determined that resveratrol treatment did
          induce eNOS expression at all time points tested (6 h, 2
          days, and 4 days). These results agreed with a previous
          report from this laboratory [ 21]. The peak expression of
          eNOS occurred at 2 days in 100 μM resveratrol-treated
          cells. These findings could mean that dietary resveratrol
          is capable of providing a gradual yet sustained increase
          in NO. The ability of resveratrol to induce S/G 
          2 growth arrest [ 20, 21] suggests an
          additional mechanism for cells to rapidly and efficiently
          repair any endothelial cell damage. Overall, the
          collective effect of resveratrol would be to decrease
          endothelial injury and exposure of the subendothelial
          matrix, which would lessen the probability of formation
          of atherosclerotic plaques and the development of CHD [
          53, 54, 55].
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        Our studies suggest that resveratrol interacts with
        endothelial cells 
        in vitro to elicit morphological and
        functional changes. Specifically, resveratrol induced an
        elongated shape, interspersed with long, tortuous
        projections, in cultured BPAEC. Treated cells resisted
        detachment from the plastic coverslips under simulated
        arterial shear stress conditions. These results, combined
        with data from our previous studies, provide additional
        support for the notion that resveratrol acts as an
        anti-atherosclerotic agent. Whether these findings can be
        extrapolated to humans require further study.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Cell culture and treatment with resveratrol
          The BPAEC isolated from the distal main intrapulmonary
          artery of calf lungs were cultured in minimal essential
          medium (MEM) supplemented with 15% fetal bovine serum and
          containing D-valine as previously described [ 56].
          Plastic coverslips on which the cells were cultured were
          sterilized by washing in ethanol, followed by rinsing
          three times in MEM and 15 min exposure to UV radiation.
          The coverslips were placed in 6-well tissue culture
          plates, and 2 ml of the cells, at an initial density of 1
          × 10 5cells/ml, were added to each of the wells.
          Twenty-four h after seeding, the coverslips were treated
          with 0,10, 25, 50, and 100 μM resveratrol and maintained
          for 2 days at 37°C until they were fixed and stained for
          confocal microscopy.
        
        
          Preparation and staining of slides
          Coverslips containing adhered BPAEC were washed for 5
          min in TBS, fixed with 5% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M
          cacodylate (pH 7.4) for 15 min, washed again for 5 min in
          TBS, then stored in 0.1 M cacodylate/7% sucrose at 4°C
          until staining. Cells were permeabilized with 0.1% Triton
          X-100/TBS for 3 min, washed twice with TBS, blocked twice
          for 3 min with 0.1% bovine serum albumin in TBS, and
          incubated with rhodamine-conjugated phalloidin for 20
          min. Routinely, 5 μl of rhodamine-phalloidin, dissolved
          in 200 μl TBS, was used for each coverslip stained. The
          coverslips were wash with 0.1% BSA/TBS for 3 min, then
          mounted in an inverted position onto TBS-containing
          beveled glass slides and sealed with clear nail
          polish.
        
        
          Perfusion
          A parallel plate perfusion chamber as described
          previously [ 57] was used to generate simulated arterial
          flow conditions. The chamber consisted of three pieces:
          two rectangular slabs and a central knob with a
          depression that fits 18 by 21 mm coverslips. The
          depression containing the coverslip was placed
          perpendicularly to the flow of perfusate. A laminar
          arterial shear rate of 650 s -1was achieved based on the
          dimensions of the flow chamber slit and a constant flow
          rate of 10 ml/min. After preincubation at 37°C, minimal
          medium was drawn directly by an eight roller peristaltic
          pump through the perfusion chamber containing the
          BPAEC-covered coverslip positioned 70 mm from the inlet
          valve at a rate of 10 ml/min for either 2 min or 5 min. A
          recirculating system was employed to recycle the medium
          after passing through the chamber.
        
        
          Confocal microscopy
          Prepared slides containing adhered BPAEC were examined
          using a BioRad confocal microscope. The cells were imaged
          following excitation of rhodamine-phalloidin with an
          argon laser beam at a wavelength of 554 nm using either
          an inverted- or an uprighted-staged microscope equipped
          with either a 10X or a 20X oil-free objective and an
          epifluorescent illumination attachment. Cells viewed in
          representative field screen captures were counted
          manually for cell morphology and classified as either
          normal or elongated.
        
        
          Inhibitor study
          Passages 4-5 BPAEC were seeded on plastic coverslips
          as described above. Inhibitor concentrations were the
          same as in [ 28]. Stock solutions were prepared by
          dissolving the inhibitors in DMSO. The inhibitors used
          and their stock solutions were as follows: quin2-AM
          (Sigma, 2 mM), herbimycin A (GibcoBRL, 0.175 mM),
          chelerythrine (Sigma, 0.4 mM), cytochalasin D (Sigma, 8
          μM), nocodazole (Sigma, 0.66 mM). Quin2-AM, herbimycin A,
          chelerythrine, and cytochalasin D were stored at -20°C,
          and nocodazole was stored at 4°C. The stock solutions
          were diluted 1:200 in MEM to give the following final
          concentrations: quin2-AM (10 μM), herbimycin A (875 nM),
          chelerythrine (2 μM), cytochalasin D (40 nM), nocodazole
          (3.3 μM). Inhibitors were applied 24 h prior to the
          addition of resveratrol, except for quin2-AM, which was
          applied 1 h prior to resveratrol treatment. Since cells
          treated with various inhibitors grew less well, compared
          to controls, treatment with 100 μM resveratrol was
          reduced to approximately 40 h. Fixing and staining of
          cells for confocal microscopy was as described above.
        
        
          Western blot analysis
          Control and treated cells were lysed by repeated
          freeze-thaw cycles with buffer containing 10 mM HEPES (pH
          7.5), 1.5 mM Mg(OAc) 
          2 , 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 0.5%
          NP40, 5% glycerol, 0.5 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride,
          and 10 μg/ml each of the protease inhibitors aprotinin,
          pepstatin, and leupeptin. Cell-free extracts were
          obtained by centrifugation in a microcentrifuge. Lysates
          (7-10 μg) from control and treated cells were separated
          on 10% SDS-PAGE. The separated proteins were transferred
          to nitrocellulose membranes, and the membranes were
          incubated with the respective primary and secondary
          antibodies. The monoclonal primary antibodies used and
          their dilutions were as follows: Phosphorylated, active
          ERK1/2-P (RBI/Sigma, 1:1000), total ERK1/2 (RBI/Sigma,
          1:1000), eIF4E (Santa Cruz, 1:250), eNOS (Sigma 1:1000).
          Membranes were probed with alkaline
          phosphatase-conjugated IgG (Santa Cruz, 1:1500) or
          horseradish peroxidase-conjugated IgG (Santa Cruz,
          1:2000). Specific immunoreactive bands were identified by
          color reaction or enhanced chemiluminescence,
          respectively.
        
      
    
  
