
  
    
      
        Introduction
        For many years, scientists believed that point mutations
        in genes are the genetic switches for somatic and inherited
        diseases such as cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria and
        cancer. For this to be the case, disease-associated amino
        acid substitutions should occur in functionally important
        regions of the protein products of genes. While it has been
        shown in specific cases that disease-associated amino acid
        substitutions affect protein function, until now few
        studies have examined this across many genes. Here we
        provide direct evidence that disease-associated point
        mutations occur in functionally important regions of the
        genome and are not distributed equally across the coding
        regions of genes. This work supports recent efforts to
        collect disease associated mutational data in databases and
        suggests that many of the mutations represented in those
        databases are the likely underlying molecular cause of
        disease.
        Recently there have been a number of commercial and
        public projects aimed at collecting and understanding human
        genomic variation [ 1 ] . The goal of these projects is to
        provide an understanding of how genotype is associated with
        disease, how it affects our response to drugs and how it
        affects the protein products of genes. Examples of these
        projects include the SNP Consortium, the Human Genome
        Mutation Database [ 2 ] , many gene specific databases ( [
        3 4 ] , for example), and both public and private genome
        sequencing efforts [ 5 ] . Much of the data that is being
        collected are mutations annotated with their observed
        phenotype. Automated annotation methods based on structural
        and evolutionary parameters can lead to insight into the
        molecular basis of disease.
        With more than 4,000,000 identified variations and with
        over 20,000 of them annotated with a phenotype, we are
        facing the problem of having many uncharacterized
        mutations. Algorithms are needed for automatically
        annotating these gene variations to gain insight into how
        they affect the gene's regulation and/or function of its
        protein products. Using many collection technologies,
        uncharacterized SNP data is being placed in public
        databases such as the Human Genome Mutation Database (over
        20,000 entries) [ 2 ] and the National Cancer Institute's
        CGAP-GAI (Cancer Genome Anatomy Project Genetic Annotation
        Initiative) [ 6 ] . The CGAP-GAI group has identified
        10,243 SNPs by examining publicly available EST (Expressed
        Sequence Tag) chromatograms.
        Software for analyzing unannotated SNPs in known disease
        associated genes will be especially useful when previously
        unobserved mutations are discovered. Every human has
        genotypic differences from the standard genome
        approximately every thousand base pairs [ 7 8 9 ] . Given
        knowledge of how a genotype differs from the standard, it
        is important to be able to predict which of the variations
        are likely to be the cause of disease or other phenotypic
        differences. Evolutionary information about regulatory and
        coding regions of genes can be used to highlight certain
        mutations or groups of mutations that are attributable to a
        phenotype [ 10 11 12 ] .
        Early tools using phylogenetic and structural
        information have shown promise in predicting the functional
        consequences of a mutation [ 13 ] . These reports predict
        that anywhere between 20-36% of non-synonymous SNPs alter
        the function of a gene's protein product. In the report by
        Chasman and Adams, evolutionary information was predicted
        to be a useful component in determining whether a mutation
        is deleterious [ 13 14 ] . Disease causing mutations are
        also likely structurally perturbing at the protein level [
        15 ] . Ng and Henikoff have introduced SIFT, a method for
        predicting functional SNPs from a database of unannotated
        polymorphisms [ 16 17 ] .
        The relationship between disease-associated mutation
        positions and evolutionary conservation has been reported
        in specific cases. An analysis of the breast and ovarian
        cancer susceptibility gene, BRCA1, showed that
        disease-associated mutations tend to occur in highly
        conserved regions [ 18 ] . An analysis of homologous
        sequences in the androgen receptor has shown similar
        results [ 10 ] . Keratin 12, KRT12, is associated with
        Meesmann Corneal Epithelial Dystrophy (MCD). Reported
        mutations often occur in the highly conserved
        alpha-helix-initiation motif of rod domain 1A or in the
        alpha-helix-termination motif of rod domain 2B [ 19 ] .
        Structure based analysis methods have also been used to
        analyze Osteogenesis imperfecta associated COL1A1 mutations
        and disease-associated P53 mutations (Mooney and Klein,
        unpublished), [ 20 ] . Miller and Kumar have reported that
        disease-associated mutations are conserved in seven model
        genes [ 21 ] .
        To determine the degree to which mutation positions
        differ evolutionarily from other positions, we have built
        alignments of homologous genes for 231 disease-associated
        genes. These multiple alignments have then been used to
        assess the difference in evolutionary conservation for
        positions that are both disease-associated and not
        associated. The results show that, in general, positions
        with disease-associated mutations are conserved more than
        the average position in the alignment. This suggests the
        most conserved mutations are likely to be the causative
        agents of disease, and our data set identifies these
        mutations.
      
      
        Results and Discussion
        Our method compares the negative entropy of
        disease-associated columns within an alignment to other
        columns in that alignment. The goal of this work is to
        build these alignments, map the mutations to them, and show
        that disease-associated positions are, in general,
        conserved. The analysis was performed on the built
        alignments and the results are shown in Table 1.
        To collect the mutation data, 231 genes were used for
        the analysis. They were chosen because they had a reported
        cDNA sequence, disease-associated mutations and homologs in
        SWISSPROT. These genes are listed in Table 1. Each
        alignment consists of all the homologs in SWISSPROT as
        determined by a BLAST search with an e-value threshold of
        10e-15. For each alignment the negative entropy for each
        column was calculated.
        The conservation ratio parameter is defined as the
        average negative entropy of analyzable positions with
        reported mutations divided by the average negative entropy
        of every analyzable position in the gene sequence. Analysis
        was performed on 231 genes and 6185 mutations and of those
        we found that 84.0% had conservation ratios less than one.
        From those, 139 genes had more than ten analyzable
        mutations and, of those, 88.0% had conservation ratios less
        than one.
        Use of evolutionary information is a promising approach
        to automated characterization of mutations. These results
        show that although conservation alone is not a perfect
        predictive measure, there is useful information contained
        in sequence alignments containing homologous genes.
        Approaches using conservation in a multiple alignment
        should work better when associated with other methods such
        as structural analysis, population analysis and
        experimental data. Knowledge of how the sequence pool
        clusters into families may increase the sensitivity of the
        method.
        Our measured parameter, the conservation ratio, is a
        quantity that measures the usefulness of a multiple
        alignment for characterizing mutations in a gene sequence.
        Knowledge of more mutations in a gene does not necessarily
        lower the conservation ratio. We expect that knowledge of
        more mutations in a gene will increase the statistical
        significance of the conservation ratio. This is the likely
        underlying cause of the result showing that genes with 10
        or mutations increases are more likely to have a
        conservation ratio less than one.
        The alignments and BLAST searches are integrated on the
        website, http://cancer.stanford.edu/mut-paper/.
      
      
        Conclusions
        In conclusion, there are estimated to be 30,000
        non-synonymous differences between an individual and the
        draft genome [ 23 5 7 8 9 ] . Determination of which
        positions are likely to be disease associated is a
        challenging and important problem. The finding that
        disease-associated mutations occur in positions of
        functional importance supports recent efforts for the
        building of methods to predict which positions are likely
        to be disease associated [ 14 13 16 17 ] . These methods
        are likely to incorporate protein structure, the amino acid
        identity of the mutation and phylogenetic information. In
        an interesting twist, this observation also suggests that
        this data may be useable as a functional genomics tool for
        understanding the function of the protein products of genes
        on a molecular level. Such a method would use the inherent
        functional information contained in a phenotypically
        annotated polymorphism to infer functional importance
        within a gene.
      
      
        Methods
        Non-synonymous mutations were acquired from the Human
        Genome Mutation Database
        http://archive.uwcm.ac.uk/uwcm/mg/hgmd0.html. 231 genes
        were chosen with known disease-association each having
        SWISSPROT homologs, a cDNA sequence and mutations in the
        coding region. For each of those genes, all known
        non-synonymous mutations were then downloaded with the cDNA
        sequence for that gene.
        Each cDNA sequence was then translated and placed in a
        FASTA formatted file. For each of the resultant files a
        BLAST [ 24 ] search was performed against the SwissProt
        database. All sequences from the returned hits were then
        stored in FASTA format files. For each of the genes that
        returned BLAST results with e-value scores smaller than
        1e-15, ClustalW [ 25 ] was used to build a sequence
        alignment.
        For each amino acid in the position of interest, the
        negative entropy was determined using the following formula
        [ 26 ] :
        
        Where the P 
        i are the probabilities of finding a
        particular amino acid at that position. For this analysis,
        gapped positions, "-", were considered independent amino
        acids.
        For each known mutation, the negative entropy of the
        column it occupies was tabulated. The average negative
        entropy for each mutation within a gene was compared to the
        average entropy of all columns satisfying the criteria for
        analysis. Mutations outside of the coding region or
        mutations encoding termination codons were discarded.
        The list of genes was then sorted by average negative
        entropy of the mutations. We then calculated the
        conservation entropy, CE, using:
        CE = average NE of mutation positions/average NE of all
        positions in the gene sequence
      
    
  
