
  
    
      
        Background
        Abnormal anterior segment development is often
        associated with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), an
        important risk factor for the blinding disease glaucoma [
        1]. The anterior segment of the eye is filled with a clear
        fluid known as the aqueous humor or aqueous. Maintenance of
        IOP is dependent on a balance between aqueous formation and
        aqueous outflow. The primary source of aqueous is blood
        flowing through the arteries of the ciliary body [ 2]. The
        aqueous is secreted by the ciliary body into the posterior
        chamber between the iris and lens. It then flows into the
        anterior chamber, the space between the cornea and iris,
        before draining from the eye at the iridocorneal junction [
        3]. The iridocorneal junction is located in a region known
        as the iridocorneal angle because of the aqueous filled
        angular recess between the iris root and cornea. One
        drainage route consists of a trabecular meshwork (TM) of
        connective tissue covered by endothelial like trabecular
        cells and a Schlemm's canal (SC). The aqueous percolates
        through channels or intertrabecular spaces in the TM before
        entering SC. The fluid collected by SC drains into aqueous
        veins that connect to the canal. This route is generally
        accepted to be the major drainage pathway for the aqueous [
        3]. Egress via the loose connective tissue meshwork and
        blood vessels of the uvea (choroid, iris and ciliary body)
        and the outer wall of the eye (sclera) also contributes to
        aqueous drainage [ 3, 4]. Primary access of aqueous to the
        uveoscleral route is likely deep in the angle recess at the
        iridocorneal junction. The resistance to aqueous flow
        presented by the tissues of the TM, SC, and likely uvea and
        sclera are important determinants of the rate of aqueous
        outflow and IOP.
        The molecular mechanisms responsible for normal or
        abnormal development of the iridocorneal angle, its
        structures, and increased resistance to aqueous drainage in
        glaucoma are not well defined. Cell migration,
        proliferation, and differentiation are important for the
        development of this ocular region. Cells of the periocular
        mesenchyme migrate into the developing eye and
        differentiate into various anterior segment structures
        including components of the ciliary body, the TM, iris
        stroma, corneal endothelium and corneal stroma. The origin
        of the periocular mesenchyme was originally suggested to be
        the paraxial mesoderm [ 5]. Later fate mapping studies
        using quail-chick chimeras show extensive cranial neural
        crest contribution to this tissue [ 6, 7]. Based on these
        avian studies, the mammalian periocular mesenchyme is
        generally accepted as neural crest derived [ 8, 9]. Recent
        cell grafting and cell labeling studies of craniofacial
        morphogenesis in mouse embryos confirm a neural crest
        derivation of the mammalian periocular mesenchyme [ 10].
        Additionally, however, they demonstrate the presence of
        cranial paraxial mesoderm-derived cells in this tissue.
        Thus, aberrations of both neural crest and mesoderm cell
        migration or differentiation may contribute to anterior
        segment dysgenesis and glaucoma.
        After the migrating mesenchymal cells reach the anterior
        margin of the developing optic cup they must form the
        tissues of the iridocorneal angle. The iridocorneal angle
        is initially occupied by a densely packed mass of
        mesenchymal cells. As TM development proceeds the cellular
        mass differentiates, organizes and develops channels to
        produce the mature meshwork. The developing TM and iris
        separate forming the deep angle recess through which the
        aqueous passes to access the TM. The mature meshwork
        consists of trabecular beams separated by intertrabecular
        spaces through which the aqueous percolates. The trabecular
        beams are covered on both surfaces by endothelial-like
        trabecular cells and the cores of the beams are composed of
        extracellular matrix components such as collagen and
        elastic tissue [ 11].
        How the complex TM develops and how spaces form in the
        initially continuous cellular tissue is not clear. Several
        theories have attempted to explain the differentiation and
        morphogenesis of the mesenchyme that forms the tissues of
        the iridocorneal angle (see [ 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17]).
        Some of these theories propose atrophy or resorption of the
        mesenchyme as development progresses to create the
        structures and spaces important for aqueous drainage while
        others propose a reorganization of cells with no cell death
        or atrophy. Whether cell death or atrophy occurs during TM
        and iridocorneal angle development remains controversial.
        Cell death was prominent in rat, but not in monkey, human
        or dog eyes [ 17, 18, 19, 20, 21]. It is not clear if
        different mechanisms are important in rodents as compared
        to these other species, if there is something unusual about
        the studied rat strain, or if cell death occurs in the
        other species but was not detected due to inadequate tissue
        sampling or the stages analyzed.
        The mouse represents an important experimental model for
        understanding mammalian development and diseases caused by
        its abnormalities. In studied mammalian species,
        iridocorneal angle development is incomplete at birth.
        Although various studies have characterized in detail the
        prenatal development of the mouse eye there is very little
        published about the normal structure or postnatal
        development of the mouse iridocorneal angle [ 22, 23, 24,
        25, 26, 27]. The aims of this work were to determine the
        developmental profile of the mouse iridocorneal angle to
        its mature form and to assess the role of cell death in
        modeling the angle recess and TM. We present a light and
        electron microscopic (EM) evaluation of iridocorneal angle
        development in staged embryos and through eight postnatal
        weeks, when the angle structures have reached full
        maturity. The mouse and human TM and SC have similar
        structures, and the developmental progression is similar
        except for the accelerated time frame in mice. Extensive
        use of light microscopy, EM and a cell death assay (on
        sections spanning complete eyes) failed to identify cell
        death at all tested ages in various mouse strains. These
        results substantiate models of iridocorneal angle
        mesenchymal differentiation and modeling that involve
        organization of cellular and extracellular matrix
        components without cell death or atrophy, and they suggest
        a conservation of developmental mechanisms between mice and
        non-rodent mammals.
      
      
        Results
        
          Prenatal development
          This study of the prenatal development of the C57BL/6J
          iridocorneal angle, essentially agrees with published
          reports of general ocular development for the strains
          CFI-S [ 24] and Ha/1CR [ 22]. Due to these previous
          reports, we will focus on the formation of the
          iridocorneal angle structures (see figure 2Afor location)
          with brief mention of the adjacent iris and cornea.
          Invagination of the optic vesicle to form the optic cup
          occurs around E10, as the lens vesicle is developing [
          22]. Shortly after the stalk of the lens vesicle
          disappears at E10.5, a few undifferentiated mesenchymal
          cells were present adjacent to the anterior margin of the
          optic cup. These were more prominent by E11.5 and were
          associated with blood vessels (Figure 2B) that become the
          source of the anterior vascular tunic of the lens as well
          as contributing to the future vascular supply of the iris
          and ciliary body. At this time, progenitor cells of the
          corneal stroma had migrated into the developing cornea
          (not shown). By E14.5, the anterior margin of the optic
          cup that ultimately forms the iris and ciliary body has
          started to advance indicating that the anterior uvea and
          iridocorneal angle were starting to form. The mesenchyme
          in the developing iridocorneal angle (angle mesenchyme)
          had produced a loosely arranged cluster of cells that was
          several cells thick and extended from the anterior edge
          of the optic cup to the anterior termination of the
          retina. These cells were characterized by plump oval
          nuclei with multiple nucleoli. There was no clear
          division between the mesenchyme of the posterior corneal
          surface and the angle mesenchyme because the cells
          remained undifferentiated (Figure 2C). By E16.5 the
          anterior margin of the optic cup had extended more
          anteriorly but no obvious differentiation into the iris
          and ciliary body had occurred. The angle mesenchyme was
          more densely packed and continuous with the mesenchyme
          extending onto the primitive iris that will become the
          iris stroma (Figure 2D). There was a clear separation
          between the developing iris and cornea, the first
          appearance of the iridocorneal angle recess (Figure 2D).
          There were no obvious differences between E16.5 and E18.5
          except that the ciliary body had started to form as
          previously reported [ 22].
        
        
          Postnatal development
          At birth (P0, 19.5 dpc), the angle mesenchyme was even
          more densely packed and the cells and their nuclei were
          more elongated and less rounded than at earlier stages
          (Figure 2E). The iris was more differentiated as
          evidenced by the fact that some of the cells destined to
          form the stroma had started to synthesize pigment and
          were, therefore, distinguishable from those of the future
          TM. The iris and ciliary body became separate as the
          ciliary processes continued to form (Figure 2E).
          The specialized basal lamina of the corneal
          endothelium (Descemet's membrane) was first evident at P2
          to P4. By P4, the iris and ciliary body were well
          developed. Pigmented cells and blood vessels were clearly
          evident in the iris stroma and the ciliary processes were
          elongated and more numerous (Figure 2F). The future
          location of the TM was clearly indicated by an
          aggregation of cells with densely stained, plump fusiform
          nuclei that separated the developing ciliary body from
          the cornea (Figure 2F).
          The angle mesenchyme extended from the termination of
          Descemet's membrane to the posterior termination of the
          ciliary body by P8. These cells were less densely packed
          than at earlier stages (Figure 2G). Although not
          definitively identified in our P8 sections, at some
          locations there appeared to be small vascular channels
          present near the developing TM. The ciliary processes and
          iris had an apparently mature structure by P10. By this
          age, the anterior cells of the future TM had begun to
          separate, although the posterior cells remained closely
          packed (Figure 2H). The first clear indications of
          Schlemm's canal next to the developing TM were observed
          on P10 as multiple small endothelial-lined channels
          located in the inner sclera over the posterior aspect of
          the ciliary body, although this was best seen using
          transmission EM (see below). The presence or absence of
          these endothelial channels at this location varied with
          ocular region. The anterior TM had started to separate
          focally from the iris at P10, and this was more extensive
          at P12. The angle mesenchyme had further developed into
          beam like structures by P12 and, though small, more open
          spaces were apparent (Figure 2I). At P12 either
          endothelial-lined vessels or a more mature SC were
          present in most sections.
          By P14, further spaces had opened in the angle,
          especially anteriorly, and for the first time there was a
          consistent separation between the anterior TM and iris
          root, forming the deep angle recess (Figure 3A). At this
          age, a SC that extended from the posterior end of the
          ciliary body to a point slightly posterior to the end of
          Descemet's membrane was consistently observed in all
          ocular regions. Additionally, the separation of the iris
          away from the TM gave the appearance that SC and TM moved
          anteriorly. Giant vacuoles (structures important for
          aqueous movement from the TM to canal lumen) were clearly
          observed indicating that SC was functional at P14 (Figure
          3A). By three weeks of age, SC had extended forward to
          the posterior termination of Descemet's membrane and
          large open spaces were present in the anterior TM. Fewer
          spaces were evident in the posterior TM (Figure 3B). Over
          the next few weeks, the spaces between the trabecular
          beams gradually became more open and extended further
          into the posterior TM. Depending on the mouse and ocular
          location, the iridocorneal angle and its structures
          typically reached their mature state by P35 to P42
          (compare Figure 3Cand 3D). In the mature state, the
          intertrabecular spaces were always most prominent in the
          anterior aspect of the TM, and less so posteriorly
          (Figure 3Cand 3D).
        
        
          Other strains
          The postnatal developmental stages and time frame
          described above for B6 mice is essentially the same as
          that we observed for the A.BY/SnJ strain (not shown).
          There were no major differences in mature angle structure
          between mice of different backgrounds, and the anterior
          to posterior TM differences described for B6 were evident
          in all strains (Figure 3E-3H). The biggest difference
          between the studied backgrounds was a consistently more
          robust ciliary muscle in the 129BS mice.
        
        
          Electron microscopy
          To further understand iridocorneal angle development,
          we analyzed stages involving significant changes in the
          TM and SC using EM. Ultrastructural evaluation
          demonstrated that differentiation of the TM was well
          underway by P10. Trabecular beams were recognizable but
          not fully developed. The separation of individual
          trabecular beams had begun and extracellular matrix
          deposition was evident. While present, trabecular beam
          collagen was less abundant than in the mature eye, while
          elastic tissue was relatively more abundant (compare
          Figure 4Dand 4Eto Figure 5Fand 5G). The trabecular beams
          were more separated in the anterior than posterior TM.
          The presence of SC or its precursors varied with section
          level at P10. At some locations there were no traces of
          SC (Figure 4A) whereas at others it was relatively well
          formed with a thin endothelial lining (Figure 4B). No
          giant vacuoles were observed at this age. At other levels
          of section, the early SC had a more primitive vascular
          appearance (Figure 4C), consistent with its likely
          derivation from coalescing venules.
          At P14, spaces between the trabecular beams in the
          anterior TM were typically more prominent than at P10.
          The posterior TM remained relatively compressed compared
          to the anterior TM, with smaller intertrabecular spaces
          (Figure 5A, 5B). The extracellular matrix was more
          prominent than at P10 (compare Figure 5Ato Figure 4A). A
          well developed, endothelial-lined SC was consistently
          present at all levels (Figure 5B), although giant
          vacuoles were relatively infrequent compared to older
          ages. By P18, the intertrabecular spaces had enlarged to
          adult size even in some regions of the posterior TM and
          giant vacuoles were abundant (Figure 5C). Smooth muscle
          cells (Figure 5D) located near the inner wall of SC close
          to its posterior termination were first noted at P14. The
          major developmental changes had occurred by P18, with
          subsequent maturation primarily involving final
          enlargement of spaces in the posterior TM.
          In adult mice, SC was lined with attenuated
          endothelial cells and at low power several giant vacuoles
          were always present (Figure 5E). Giant vacuoles were
          evenly distributed along the entire length of Schlemm's
          canal. There were 3-4 trabecular beams in the anterior
          meshwork and 7-10 in the posterior meshwork. In the
          posterior adult meshwork, the extracellular matrix was
          more prominent and the intertrabecular spaces were
          smaller than anteriorly (Figure 5F, 5G).
        
        
          Absence of cell death in angle development
          Review of many sections examined by light microscopy
          did not identify dead or pyknotic cells at any age from
          PO to adult. Similar review of many sections by EM failed
          to demonstrate any cells that had necrotic or apoptotic
          morphology. This was true for multiple mouse strains (see
          Methods). It is probable that all normal cell death
          during development utilizes pathways of programmed cell
          death (PCD) [ 28]. To further investigate if cell death
          occurred in the developing iridocorneal angle, we used a
          fluorescent double labeling assay that identifies
          fragmented DNA using fluorescently labeled dUTP and
          detects chromatin condensation by binding of the dye
          YOYO-1. Cells were identified as apoptotic only when they
          were doubly labeled (Figure 6). This assay is more
          sensitive than light microscopy and allows more
          widespread testing than EM. As shown above, TM channel
          formation has started at P10 and is mostly complete
          around P18 to P20, with subtle changes extending to P35
          to P42. Our assay investigated tissues that spanned most
          of this period (see Methods), including four time points
          in the critical period surrounding P10 to P18 (P10, P12,
          P14 and P18). The majority of the angle was assessed by
          analyzing many sections that were obtained at 20 μm
          intervals throughout the eye. During differentiation from
          the trabecular anlage to a mature state, only 2 doubly
          labeled cells were identified in the angles of
          approximately 600 analyzed sections or approximately
          120,000 analyzed TM and SC cells. One of these positive
          cells was located in the lumen of Schlemm's canal and was
          likely a blood cell. No apoptotic cells were detected in
          the ciliary body and iris. In contrast, apoptotic retinal
          ganglion cells (Figure 6) were frequently identified
          (often 2 or more apoptotic cells in a section) during the
          established period of developmental ganglion cell death
          (assessed between P10 and P21) and less abundantly
          afterwards. Testis sections served as additional positive
          controls with each batch of processed slides, and
          abundant apoptotic cells were always detected.
          As a final assessment of a role for cell death
          pathways, we determined whether absence of the FAS and
          FASL initiators of cell death alter iridocorneal angle
          development and morphology. 
          Fas and 
          FasL are expressed in the TM and a
          FAS-stimulating monoclonal antibody causes PCD of TM
          cells [ 29, 30]. We assessed five mice of each of the
          mutant strains B6.MRL- 
          Fas 
          lpr and B6Smn.C3H- 
          Fasl 
          gld , which respectively lack
          functional FAS and FASL. The eyes of mice lacking
          functional FAS or FASL were similar in appearance to eyes
          from age-matched B6 mice (not shown). This indicates that
          these pro-apoptotic molecules are not required for normal
          iridocorneal angle development.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        
          Sequence and timing of iridocorneal angle
          morphogenesis
          In this study, we describe the morphogenesis of the
          mouse iridocorneal angle from prenatal stages to
          maturity. Our findings extend those of previous studies
          that did not focus on the iridocorneal angle or did not
          study its development to maturity [ 22, 23, 24, 25, 26].
          The sequence and timing of morphogenic events in the
          C57BL/6J and A.BY/SnJ mouse strains is summarized in
          Figure 1, and is similar to that for rats [ 31]. The
          sequence also is similar in humans. The major difference
          is the age at which specific developmental stages occur,
          beginning prenatally but extending to around P42 in mice
          and possibly to 8 postnatal years in humans [ 16,
          19].
          Briefly, in mice, migrating mesenchyme begins to fill
          the space between the anterior edge of the optic cup, the
          surface ectoderm and the lens vesicle at E11 to E12.
          Anlage formation appears complete by P4 to P6. Cell
          differentiation within the anlage has started by P8.
          Trabecular beams are recognizable but not fully developed
          at P10. SC is first evident around P10 and appears
          structurally mature around P14. Although SC is functional
          at this age, giant vacuoles are rare. By P18 to P21, the
          major developmental changes have occurred, and
          intertrabecular spaces have enlarged to adult size in the
          anterior TM and some parts of the posterior TM. Giant
          vacuoles become more abundant as spaces between the
          trabecular beams increase and are abundant at P18 to P21.
          After P18-P21, maturation primarily involves enlargement
          of spaces in the posterior TM.
        
        
          Participation of cell death in iridocorneal angle
          morphogenesis is controversial
          Different theories on the mechanisms of morphogenesis
          of the angle mesenchyme to the complex tissues of the
          mature angle have been reviewed elsewhere [ 12, 13, 14,
          15, 16, 17]. Important mechanisms that participate in
          complex tissue formation include: proliferation and
          differentiation of cells, differential growth rates of
          cells, modulation of the extracellular matrix, and cell
          death. Although there is evidence for a role of most of
          these processes in iridocorneal angle development and
          intertrabecular space opening (see [ 17]), the role of
          cell death or atrophy is controversial.
          In Sprague Dawley (SD) rats, dying cells were readily
          identified from P5 to P100 (average of 10 to 20 dying
          cells per section) and less abundantly at older adult
          ages (1 to 3 per section at P200) [ 18]. This time frame
          encompasses the period of mesenchymal differentiation and
          channel formation in the rat angle (P5 to P60). Due to
          this and the fact that dying cells were identified in the
          TM, iris, iris root and ciliary body, it was proposed
          that cell death may serve to open the deep angle recess
          and to create spaces in the TM and uveoscleral outflow
          routes. The dying cells were frequently associated with
          macrophages. An established function of macrophages is
          the engulfment of cellular debris. Macrophages also can
          elicit cell death in normal development (see [ 32]). In
          the developing eye, macrophages are required to induce
          death of vascular endothelial cells during programmed
          capillary regression. Disruption of macrophage function
          prevents endothelial cell death and results in abnormal
          persistence of the capillary networks known as the
          pupillary membrane and hyaloid vasculature [ 33, 34].
          Together, these observations suggest that macrophage
          induced cell death may be important in angle
          morphogenesis.
          By contrast to the rat study, trabecular cell death
          was not observed or was rare in the developing human,
          monkey and dog TM [ 12, 16, 17, 20, 21], even though
          small numbers of macrophages were present in some of
          these studies. In one human study that considered total
          cell numbers (as opposed to cell density), the total
          number of cells increased as the TM matured. Macrophages
          were reported in the developing mouse (B6) anterior
          chamber and a model of TM development including cell
          death was proposed, but no cell death was recorded [ 26].
          The reason for these differing results is still unclear,
          and may reflect factors such as the age of tissue sampled
          or the amount of tissue available for study.
        
        
          No evidence for cell death during mouse angle
          development
          We report here an extensive study of mouse eyes. Light
          microscopy failed to detect cell death in the developing
          TM of B6 and A.BY/SnJ mice. Dying cells were not detected
          in the angle of mice of an additional 5 inbred strains
          and 3 mixed genetic backgrounds at ages up to P63. No
          cells with the characteristic morphologic changes of
          apoptosis or necrosis were observed by EM [ 35, 36] in
          mice of strain B6, or of 5 other inbred strains and 2
          mixed genetic backgrounds at ages up to P63. Similarly,
          only 2 apoptotic cells were detected in the developing
          SC, TM, iris and ciliary body of B6 eyes using a cell
          death assay on sections collected throughout entire eyes.
          In contrast, apoptotic cells were frequently identified
          in the developing retinas on the same sections.
          Importantly, the great majority of TM channel formation
          occurs during an 8 to 10 day period surrounding P10 to
          P18. Our EM and fluorescent PCD assays included three
          (P10, P14 and P18) and four (P10, P12, P14 and P18) time
          points respectively during this critical period. Although
          rare cases of cell death may be missed, the absence of
          cell death in approximately 600 analyzed sections
          provides no evidence for a role of cell death in angle
          morphogenesis. Finally, development of the angle in 
          Fas and 
          Fasl null mice was normal
          indicating this system of cell death regulators that can
          kill TM cells [ 30] is not required for TM channel
          formation. Based on these observations, we conclude that
          neither apoptosis nor necrosis are important mechanisms
          in development of the mouse TM and iridocorneal angle.
          Our data, together with the rare occurrence of cell death
          in studies of various mammalian species including humans,
          suggests that this is true for mammals in general.
        
        
          Possible explanations for conflicting results
          between various studies
          The absence of macrophages in the developing TM of
          mice in the current study is in conflict to a previous
          study. That study reported macrophages on the corneal
          endothelium, on the iris surface and in the TM at P6
          through P10 [ 26]. The abundance of TM macrophages was
          not reported but the statement that they were observed in
          "favorable sections" suggests that they were not common.
          Macrophage mediated regression of the pupillary membrane
          occurs between P4 and P10 in mice [ 33, 37]. In the
          current investigation, we observed macrophages in the
          anterior chamber between the iris and cornea, and
          associated with the pupillary membrane between P6 and
          P10. Thus, we suggest that the macrophages previously
          reported in TM of mice (and possibly some other species)
          were involved in the process of pupillary membrane
          regression and were sometimes deposited in the TM but
          were not significant for TM development. That TM cell
          death was not recorded in both studies supports this.
          The demonstration of cell death in a SD strain of rats
          has fueled the debate about mechanisms of iridocorneal
          angle development [ 18]. This report disagrees with our
          findings in mice and warrants further discussion. In this
          rat strain, conspicuous numbers of macrophages were noted
          associated with dying cells in the iris, ciliary body and
          TM. Given the similarities in developmental stages
          between both B6 and A.BY/SnJ mouse strains and humans,
          and the similar timing and progression of angle
          development in mice and rats, it seems unlikely that
          mechanisms of angle morphogenesis would differ between
          mice and rats. It is, therefore, difficult to reconcile
          the frequent cell death in the developing and adult
          iridocorneal angle of an SD rat strain with the absence
          of cell death in multiple mouse strains in the current
          study. Although structural features and not morphogenesis
          were the focus of other rat studies, cell death was not
          reported in an EM analysis of the adult TM of Swiss
          albino rats, or of the adult angle of an unspecified
          strain of pigmented lab rats [ 38, 39]. These findings
          suggest that the SD rat strain may have atypical or
          excessive intraocular macrophage recruitment, formation,
          stimulation or persistence that may explain the
          macrophage abundance and cell death. Spontaneous axonal
          regeneration was recently reported in the transected
          optic nerve of adult SD rats [ 40]. This was unexpected
          because, in contrast to peripheral nerves, axons of the
          adult, mammalian central nervous system typically fail to
          regenerate following injury. Regeneration is a complex
          and poorly understood process in which macrophages are
          known to be important. Addition of appropriately
          stimulated macrophages can induce a peripheral nerve-like
          regenerative response in the damaged rat optic nerve [
          41, 42, 43]. Although the spontaneous axonal regeneration
          in SD rats is consistent with atypical macrophage
          activity, further experiments are needed to test
          this.
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        Our results support a model of mesenchymal
        differentiation and iridocorneal angle development that
        involves reorganization of cellular and extracellular
        matrix components without cell death or atrophy. The use of
        genetically different mouse strains indicates that the
        absence of cell death is typical in mice and not unique to
        an individual strain. The lack of cell death, similar
        developmental profile, and similarities in mature angle
        structure in both humans and mice suggests a conservation
        of general developmental mechanisms between mice and
        non-rodent mammals. For general anterior segment
        development, this is supported by the observations that
        genetic deficiency of transcription factors such as PAX6,
        PITX2, FOXC1 [ 44, 45], and LMX1B that are expressed in the
        periocular mesenchyme results in anterior segment
        dysgenesis in both humans and mice [ 46, 47, 48, 49, 50,
        51, 52, 53, 54]. In general, however, previous mouse
        studies have not examined the effects of mutations on the
        TM and SC. This is partly due to limited documentation of
        the sequence of events underlying iridocorneal angle
        development and limited documentation of the mature angle
        structures in mice. The current study provides important
        baseline information for mechanistic studies of angle
        development in the existing mouse models of anterior
        segment dysgenesis. Additionally, it will facilitate
        experiments with mutant mice to determine how newly
        identified genes function in angle development and how the
        pathways in which they participate overlap or interact with
        each other. These experiments will enhance understanding of
        the developmental processes involved in anterior segment
        formation, and glaucomas associated with anterior segment
        dysgenesis.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Light microscopy
          At least three mice C57BL/6J (B6) were evaluated for
          each postnatal time period: newborn, P2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12,
          14, 21, 28, 35, 42, 49, and P56. Adult B6 mice ranging
          from P60 to 12 months and prenatal B6 stages E10.5 to
          E18.5 were also examined. Additionally, progressive
          developmental stages in the strain A.BY/SnJ were
          evaluated (P1, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 42, and P60, with 2 to 6
          mice at each age). A.BY/SnJ were normal mice derived from
          the A.BY/SnJ- 
          corn1 strain. At least 2 mice (7 to
          9 weeks old) were used for each of the following strains
          or mixed backgrounds: DBA/2J, BALB/cByJ, 129P3/J (former
          name 129/J), 129SvEvTac, 129SvB6F2, 129P3B6F1 and 129BS
          (129SvEvTac X Black Swiss >F2). Four week old DBA/2J
          and SB/Le mice also were studied. To determine if absence
          of the cell death mediators FAS and FASL alter
          iridocorneal angle development and morphology, we
          assessed five mice (approximately P70) of each of the
          mutant strains B6.MRL- 
          Fas 
          lpr and B6Smn.C3H- 
          Fasl 
          gld , which respectively lack
          functional FAS and FASL [ 55, 56, 57, 58].
          For stages E11.5 through P6, whole heads were fixed in
          Bouin's solution, paraffin embedded and sectioned at 5 μm
          thickness. Eyes from mice of ages P8 and older were fixed
          with a glutaraldehyde-paraformaldehyde solution [ 53],
          plastic embedded, sectioned at 1.5 μm thickness and
          stained with hematoxylin and eosin. For both paraffin and
          plastic-embedded B6 eyes, 25 to 40 sections were
          collected from each of 3 different ocular locations,
          using the lens as a landmark, resulting in 75 to 120
          sections per eye. Collected regions included the lens
          periphery, central lens, and a region halfway between the
          center of the lens and the lens periphery. Iridocorneal
          angle development is somewhat variable both temporally
          and spatially within a single eye and between eyes. This
          necessitated careful scanning of all sections. The eyes
          of other strains were processed identically, except that
          30 to 40 sections through the pupil and optic nerve were
          typically collected and analyzed. This also was true for
          some of the adult eyes from B6 mice that were P60 or
          older. Developmental changes had to be consistently
          present in multiple sections from the same region to be
          regarded as real, and conclusions were drawn only from
          high quality sections. This approach guarded against the
          potential for distortion artifacts in the delicate
          tissues analyzed.
        
        
          Electron microscopy
          To assess developmental stages and to check for cell
          death, we studied eyes from three or more B6 mice at P10,
          14, 18, 21, 35, and P60; from 2 DBA/2J and 2 SB/LE mice
          at 4 weeks of age; and from at least two 7 to 9 week old
          DBA/2J, BALB/cJ, 129P3/J, 129SvEvTac, 129B6F1 and 129BS
          mice. Eyes were processed as previously described [ 53].
          Tissue blocks from 6 to 8 different locations around the
          eye were sectioned and analyzed for each eye.
        
        
          Fluorescent programmed cell death (PCD)
          assays
          B6 eyes at P10, 12, 14, 18, 21, 29 and P36, were
          immediately fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M
          phosphate buffer pH 7.2 for 3 hours, transferred to 0.4%
          paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer for 48 hrs,
          and infiltrated with paraffin. Eyes from two different
          mice in each age group were sectioned at 5 μm thickness
          and sections were collected at 20 μm intervals through
          the entire eye, except for very peripheral locations that
          did not contain iridocorneal angle. Depending on the size
          of the eye between 30 and 81 sections were collected per
          eye. We analyzed approximately 600 sections and estimate
          that considering all ages there was on average 100 cells
          in each angle region of our sections. Thus, we analyzed
          approximately 120,000 developing TM and SC cells (100
          cells X 600 sections X 2 angle regions per section). A
          modified double labeling protocol that involved 
          in situ end-labeling of fragmented
          DNA (using BODIPY fluorophores, Molecular Probes, Eugene,
          Or.) and detection of condensed chromatin (with the
          dimeric cyanine dye YOYO-1, Molecular Probes) was used to
          analyze all of these sections [ 59]. Samples were
          analyzed with a confocal microscope and cells were
          identified as apoptotic only when they were double
          labeled. The occurrence of PCD was evaluated in the iris,
          ciliary body and TM.
        
      
    
  
