
  
    
      
        Background
        Subcellular localization of mRNAs represents a
        fundamental mechanism for post-transcriptional control of
        cell and tissue function. Examples include the polarized
        localization of oocyte mRNAs which is crucial for the
        establishment axis formation in the embryo [ 1 2 3 ] , the
        targeting of specific mRNAs to the synapses of nerve cells
        [ 4 5 ] , centrosomal segregation of mRNAs in the mollusk
        embryo which results in asymmetric inheritance [ 6 ] and
        the localization of β-actin mRNA to sites of active actin
        polymerization at the leading edge of motile fibroblasts [
        7 8 ] . In each of these cases, mRNA targeting is mediated
        by the cytoskeleton. For example, growth factor-induced
        localization of actin mRNA to the leading edge of
        fibroblasts is a dynamic, regulated process requiring
        actomyosin interactions and activation of the RhoGTPase
        pathway, as well as specific signal sequences in the 3' UTR
        of the message [ 9 10 11 12 ] . Moreover, disruption of the
        actin cytoskeleton using pharmacological agents also blocks
        the association of β-actin mRNA with microfilaments and
        prevents localization of the transcript to the cell
        periphery [ 7 13 ] . Mechanical forces exerted on cell
        surface integrin receptors, which anchor the actin
        cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix, also produce
        changes in the localization of poly(A) mRNA and ribosomal
        proteins inside the cell [ 14 ] . Importantly, the
        localization of transcripts can serve as a key regulatory
        step in gene expression as inhibition of mRNA targeting can
        significantly impact cell function. For example, replacing
        the 3' UTR of the mRNA for the intermediate filament
        protein, vimentin, with the β-actin 3'UTR sequence results
        in mislocalization of vimentin transcript, altered
        fibroblast morphology, and impaired motility [ 15 ] .
        To date, only a relatively small number of gene
        transcripts are known to target to the cytoskeleton and all
        of these have been found empirically. 
        In situ hybridization technologies
        and microinjection of fluorescently labeled RNAs have
        greatly enhanced our ability to observe intracellular RNA
        localization with high spatial resolution. However, the
        number of RNA species that may be simultaneously observed
        using these approaches is usually limited to only one
        transcript at a time. We hypothesized that association of
        mRNAs with the cytoskeleton may be a more widespread
        post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism that extends to a
        larger subset of transcripts than is currently recognized.
        To explore this possibility, we used gene microarray
        technology to identify and analyze large populations of
        cytosolic and cytoskeleton-associated mRNAs isolated from
        HL-60 promyelocytic cells. By combining traditional
        biochemical subcellular fractionation methods with
        massively-parallel gene profiling technology, we were able
        to ask the question: how many different eukaryotic mRNAs
        interact with the cytoskeletal network and what is their
        identity?
      
      
        Results
        To investigate whether multiple mRNAs associate with the
        cytoskeleton, exponentially growing HL-60 promyelocytic
        cells were biochemically extracted to obtain fractions
        enriched for either cytoskeleton or cytosolic components.
        Briefly, cells were harvested and lysed in nonionic
        detergent to release the soluble, cytosolic fraction. Upon
        centrifugation, the pellet, containing cellular matrix, was
        resuspended in high salt buffer to release
        cytoskeleton-associated components. RNA was isolated from
        both fractions and hybridized to nylon filter DNA arrays
        that contained 5184 gene or EST sequences. After filtering
        out genes whose signal intensity was not significantly
        above background noise, 649 known genes remained. Analysis
        of these genes revealed a subset of transcripts that were
        enriched 2-15 fold in the cytoskeleton fraction relative to
        the cytosolic fraction (Table 1, top). Selected transcripts
        identified by microarray analysis, including β-actin,
        spectrin and phosphatidylinositol-4-kinase (PI4K), were
        subsequently confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR (Fig.
        1).
        Among the subset of transcripts that were found to be
        enriched in the cytoskeleton fraction were several mRNA
        species, such as those encoding β-actin mRNA and ribosomal
        protein subunits, that have previously been shown to be
        cytoskeleton-associated in other cell types [ 13 16 ] . In
        addition, we identified approximately 20 new members of the
        cytoskeleton-associated transcriptome, the majority of
        which encode structural proteins known to interact directly
        with cytoskeleton filaments, such as spectrin and protein
        4.1 (Table 1). Spectrin is an integral component of the
        submembranous cytoskeleton that is required for maintenance
        of cell shape and mechanical stability of the surface
        membrane. Interactions between spectrin and actin filaments
        are stabilized by protein 4.1 and regulated by a variety of
        accessory proteins [ 17 ] . Protein 4.1 also may connect
        the protein translation apparatus to the cytoskeleton
        through interactions with a component of the eukaryotic
        translation initiation factor-3 complex, eIF3-p44 [ 18 ] .
        Interestingly, mRNAs for multiple proteins involved in
        translation, such as various ribosomal proteins, were
        enriched in the cytoskeleton fraction (Table I). Other
        transcripts found to be cytoskeleton-associated in this
        study encode PI4K which associates with the cytoskeleton
        backbone of the focal adhesion [ 19 ] as well as thymosin
        β4, an actin monomer sequestering protein that also
        contributes to control of cell motility and contractility [
        20 ] .
        To determine which specific class of cytoskeleton
        filaments is required for the localization of these mRNAs,
        cells were treated with latrunculin B (0.1 μg/ml) for 30
        min. Latrunculin B depolymerizes actin microfilaments and
        hence should release components that normally associate
        with the actin cytoskeleton. Western blotting of the
        biochemical fractions prior to RNA isolation confirmed that
        latrunculin B treatment resulted in a dramatic decrease in
        the amount of β-actin protein that was extracted in the
        cytoskeleton fraction. RT-PCR of RNA isolated from these
        samples revealed a shift of the cytoskeleton-associated
        transcripts to the cytosolic fraction upon exposure to
        latrunculin, indicating that these transcripts had been
        associated with the actin cytoskeleton in intact cells (Fig
        2). In contrast, depolymerizing microtubules with
        nocodazole did not change the distribution of these
        transcripts between the cytosolic and cytoskeleton
        fractions (data not shown).
        HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells have been widely used
        as a model system for the study of hematopoietic
        differentiation because they undergo terminal
        differentiation to one of several cell types of the
        myelo-monocytic lineage when stimulated with various
        pharmacological agents [ 21 ] . In particular, induction of
        macrophage differentiation by treatment of HL60 cells with
        TPA is accompanied by dramatic alterations in cell
        morphology and cytoskeleton structure. Precursor HL-60
        cells are spherical and grow in suspension, whereas the
        differentiated macrophage-like cells become adherent and
        spread. To examine whether differentiation and
        reorganization of the cytoskeleton produces changes in mRNA
        distribution, macrophage differentiation was induced by the
        addition of 10 nM TPA to suspension cultures of
        exponentially proliferating HL-60 promyelocytic cells.
        Within 40 hrs of induction, the previously non-adherent
        cells (Fig. 3A) attached and spread on the tissue culture
        plastic (Fig. 3B). The serial extraction approach described
        above was used to separate cytosolic and cytoskeleton mRNA
        fractions from these adherent cells. Spatial distribution
        profiles of mRNAs in differentiated HL-60 cells were
        obtained using microarrays and compared with profiles of
        the spherical precursor HL-60 cells.
        Rather than comparing the entire transcriptome of
        undifferentiated versus differentiated cells as is commonly
        done [ 22 ] , we were interested in how the two
        transcriptome compartments behaved upon differentiation and
        adhesion. We found that the terminally differentiated cells
        contained a greater number of cytoskeleton-associated
        transcripts than suspended precursor cells, consistent with
        the idea that the cytoskeleton plays a larger role in
        organizing RNAs in adherent cells (Table 1bottom versus
        top, and Fig. 4). Approximately 22 unique mRNAs exhibited
        2-fold or more enrichment in the cytoskeleton-associated
        samples. A scatterplot of the ratios of cytoskeleton to
        cytosolic RNAs in the precursor and macrophage cells
        revealed a shift in the distribution of individual
        transcripts to the cytoskeletal compartment upon
        differentiation (Fig. 4). However, the majority of
        transcripts did not change their localization status as
        indicated by the fact that the ratios of most genes
        remained close to the diagonal in this plot.
        To further characterize changes in the overall
        distribution pattern of mRNAs upon differentiation, we
        performed hierarchical cluster analysis of the four
        different RNA profiles representing the two spatial pools
        (cytosolic and cytoskeleton) in the two cell types
        (undifferentiated and differentiated cells). Complete
        linkage clustering based on Euclidean distance [ 23 ] of
        these four sets of transcripts (cytosolic versus
        cytoskeleton transcripts in HL-60 cells in the presence or
        absence of TPA) revealed that the cytoskeleton-anchored
        population in the precursor HL-60 cells and those in the
        macrophage cells were most similar (Fig. 5). In other
        words, mRNAs within each distinct subcellular compartment
        clustered more closely together than those of the same cell
        type. Thus, the overall subcellular distribution of mRNAs
        is largely conserved across the two different cell types
        despite significant changes in cytoskeleton architecture,
        adhesive state and cell morphology.
      
      
        Discussion
        Interactions between mRNA and cytoskeleton filaments are
        responsible for the spatial distribution and localized
        function of several transcripts in somatic cells [ 15 16 24
        ] . However, since only a small number of localized mRNAs
        have previously been uncovered, it is not known to what
        extent the association of RNAs with the cytoskeleton might
        be a more general mechanism of gene regulation. Our data
        suggest that while many mRNAs distribute equally between
        the cytosolic and cytoskeletal fractions, a specific set of
        transcripts associates preferentially with actin
        microfilaments.
        Furthermore, this spatial distribution pattern was
        retained even after the round HL-60 cells were chemically
        induced to differentiate into macrophages that adhere and
        spread on the culture substrate, a process that involves
        extensive alterations in cytoskeletal architecture and
        genome-wide changes in gene expression. Thus, the
        cytoskeleton-associated transcripts may encode a core group
        of proteins whose expression may be regulated at the
        post-transcriptional level through their association with
        the components of the actin cytoskeleton network.
        Consistent with this hypothesis, the majority of
        cytoskeleton-associated transcripts identified in this
        study encoded proteins that modulate cytoskeleton structure
        or adhesion. Spectrin and protein 4.1 form a complex with
        actin filaments [ 17 26 ] that may be important in
        signaling in additional to forming a physical link between
        the cytoskeletal network and the cell membrane [ 27 ] .
        Furthermore, PI4K activity has been shown to associate with
        the actin cytoskeleton by biochemical detergent extraction
        [ 28 ] and is thought to specifically localize with α3β1
        integrin [ 29 ] . PI4K catalyzes the production of
        phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate, an intermediate in
        multiple phosphatidylinositol signaling pathways which
        itself can interact with actin binding proteins to regulate
        microfilament polymerization [ 30 ] . Our work now suggests
        that the mRNAs of these proteins are all positioned in
        close association with the actin cytoskeleton to permit
        efficient localization of their protein products.
        Given the limited sensitivity of DNA arrays, it is
        possible that the cytoskeleton may play a role in the
        localization and regulation of additional cellular
        transcripts that could not be detected with the approach
        described here. Abundant mRNA species may target only a
        miniscule fraction of mRNA molecules to the cytoskeleton;
        this may be the functionally important fraction but its
        relevance would not be revealed using this method. On the
        other hand, mRNAs of lowly expressed genes may be entirely
        associated with the cytoskeleton but may fall below the
        limits of microarray detection. For the majority of gene
        transcripts, the relationship between mRNA localization and
        translational activation remains unclear. It is therefore
        possible that although only a small fraction of a
        particular transcript associates with the cytoskeleton,
        these localized molecules might actually represent the
        actively translated subpopulation.
        This naturally raises the question of whether the
        cytoskeleton-associated transcripts are differentially
        expressed in promyelocyte and macrophage cells. Tamayo 
        et al. have previously monitored gene
        expression at various time points following phorbol
        ester-induced differentiation in the same HL-60 cell system
        [ 22 ] . Thirteen of the 22 transcripts we identified as
        cytoskeleton-associated were also assayed in that study by
        Tamayo, 
        et al [ 22 ] . Only two of these
        transcripts-alpha spectrin and pim-1 were found to vary
        significantly, in that the expression of both genes was
        undetectable in the promyelocytic cell type and increased
        dramatically upon differentiation to the macrophage cell
        type. Future work in this area might address the potential
        relationship between cytoskeleton-localization and
        expression of these transcripts.
        As a mechanosensitive scaffold that controls a large set
        of regulatory proteins, the actin cytoskeleton is
        critically poised to modulate a variety of cellular
        processes, including protein synthesis, cell survival,
        migration and proliferation [ 14 31 32 ] . One function of
        the cytoskeleton in gene regulation appears to be the
        spatial organization of transcripts and possibly their
        translation within the intracellular environment. Our work
        demonstrates that a subset of gene transcripts interacts
        with the actin cytoskeleton and that this subpopulation
        includes a number of structural and cytoskeleton-modulating
        proteins as well as molecules involved in protein
        translation. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis
        that cellular evolution resulted from self-assembly of
        molecular scaffolds, like the actin cytoskeleton, that
        provide simultaneous structural and biochemical functions,
        including orienting mRNA transcripts and facilitating their
        translation into proteins that self-assemble into the very
        scaffolds to which they associate [ 33 ] .
        In summary, this work extends our view of
        post-transcriptional control of gene expression by
        revealing that multiple transcripts involved in cellular
        regulation associate with the actin cytoskeleton. The
        subcellular localization of the majority of these
        transcripts had not been previously investigated. It
        appears that information about the spatial context of an
        mRNA species, in addition to knowledge of its temporal
        expression pattern, may be necessary for a more complete
        view of gene regulation. Thus, a combination of other
        biochemical fractionation techniques (e.g., isolation of
        microtubule or intermediate filament cytoskeleton
        compartments, nuclear matrix, etc.) with massively parallel
        gene profiling technology may provide additional insights
        into cellular regulation.
      
      
        Conclusions
        In this work, we set out to explore the extent to which
        somatic cell transcripts associate with the cytoskeleton
        and to identify the specific transcripts that might be
        regulated through cytoskeleton localization. A set of 22
        transcripts, encoding structural proteins, cytoskeletal
        proteins and components of the translation machinery, was
        shown to be highly enriched in the cytoskeleton-associated
        population of HL-60 cells. Intact actin microfilaments were
        required for the localization and/or anchoring of these
        transcripts. In addition, this study emphasizes the value
        of using subcellular fractionation to expand the range of
        genome-wide technologies by providing information about the
        spatial distribution of a transcript, in addition to its
        expression level.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Cell culture conditions
          Suspended HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were
          cultured in IMDM (Clonetics) supplemented with 10% fetal
          bovine serum (Hyclone). Cells were seeded in tissue
          culture flasks at a density of 3 × 10 5cells/ml and
          expanded when the culture reached 3 × 10 6cells/ml. To
          induce macrophage differentiation, 10 nM phorbol ester
          (TPA) was added to growth cultures at a cell density of
          1.5 × 10 6cells/ml, 40 hrs prior to harvest. To
          depolymerize actin microfilaments, cells were treated
          with 0.1 μg/ml latrunculin B (Cytoskeleton, Inc.) 30 min
          prior to harvest.
        
        
          Cell harvest and serial extraction
          Subcellular fractionation of RNA into
          cytoskeleton-associated and cytosolic fractions was
          performed as previously described [ 15 34 ] . In brief,
          HL-60 cells were harvested by centrifugation and
          resuspension in buffer A (10 mM Tris pH 7.6, 0.25 M
          sucrose, 25 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl 
          2 ) with 0.1% Igepal nonionic
          detergent (Sigma). The minimal concentration of nonionic
          detergent required to release cytosolic components
          without disrupting nuclei was determined by measuring
          lactate dehydrogenase activity as a marker for release of
          cytosol. The detergent concentration that released
          <90% of the lactate dehydrogenase activity in the
          cytosolic fraction was chosen for all subsequent studies.
          TPA-treated cells become adherent and were harvested at
          40 hr by scraping in buffer A, pelleting the cells, and
          resuspending in buffer A plus 0.1% Igepal. After
          incubating for 10 min on ice, the samples were pelleted
          by centrifugation (1000 g) and the supernatant containing
          "cytosolic" components was collected. The pellet was
          resuspended in high salt buffer B (10 mM Tris pH 7.6,
          0.25 M sucrose, 200 mM KCl, 5 mM MgCl 
          2 , 0.5 mM CaCl 
          2 ) and incubated 10 min on ice to
          disrupt the cytoskeleton and release associated
          components. Nuclei and internal membranes were removed by
          centrifugation (1500 g) and the supernatant containing
          "cytoskeleton-associated" components was collected. RNA
          was isolated from the cytosolic and
          cytoskeleton-associated fractions using RNeasy miniprep
          column and reagents (Qiagen). As an internal control for
          the RNA isolation procedure, an exogenous RNA that was
          generated by 
          in vitro transcription from a
          pBluScriptII plasmid was added to the fractions prior to
          RNA isolation. RT-PCR analysis confirmed that the
          exogenous pBluII RNA was equally distributed between the
          cytosolic and cytoskeleton-associated fractions.
        
        
          Microarray hybridization and analysis
          Small samples (2 μg) from each RNA fraction were
          reverse transcribed and radiolabeled (2 μg oligo dT, 1x
          First Strand buffer, 5 mM DTT, 75 U SuperscriptII [Life
          Technologies], 20 mM dNTP mix containing dATP, dGTP, dTTP
          and 100 mCi 33P-dCTP (ICN Radiochemicals). Probes were
          purified by passage through a Bio-Spin6 chromatography
          column (Bio-Rad). A Research Genetics gene filter (GF201)
          was prehybridized in MicroHyb solution (Research
          Genetics) containing 5 μg Cot-1 DNA (Life Technologies)
          and 5 μg poly dA at 42°C for at least 2.5 hr. The probe
          was denatured by heating to 95°C for 3 min before adding
          to the prehybridization solution. Hybridization was
          carried out overnight at 42°C in a hybridization roller
          oven. Membranes were washed twice in 2x SSC, 1% SDS at
          50°C for 20 min and once in 0.5x SSC, 1% SDS at 55°C for
          15 min. After washing, the filter was placed on moist
          filter paper, sealed in plastic wrap and exposed to a
          phosphor imaging screen for 1-2 days. Images were
          acquired using the GeneStorm phosphor imaging system
          (Molecular Dynamics). Filters were stripped by placing in
          boiling 0.5% SDS with shaking for 1 hr. Each sample probe
          was sequentially hybridized to the same human gene filter
          to control for variation between filters. The Pathways
          4.0 (Research Genetics) software package was used for
          normalization and initial comparisons. Additional
          analysis was performed using Matlab 5.3 (Mathworks) and
          Clustan 4 (Clustan Graphics). Comparison of multiple
          scans of the same sample revealed that low intensity
          spots (intensity < 1) were variable due to background
          noise; these were not included in subsequent
          analysis.
        
        
          Western blotting
          HL-60 cells were harvested and serial extractions were
          performed as described above. Equal volumes of each
          sample (cytosolic and cytoskeleton-associated components)
          were subjected to SDS-PAGE, transferred to a
          nitrocellulose membrane (Bio-Rad) and immunoblotted with
          primary antibody to β-actin and detected using
          horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody
          (Vector Laboratories) and SuperSignal West Dura (Pierce)
          as a chemiluminescent substrate.
        
        
          RT-PCR
          Semi-quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was
          used to confirm the relative abundance of specific mRNA
          species in the cytosolic and cytoskeleton-associated
          populations. In addition, the abundance of histone 33, a
          transcript that distributed equally between the cytosolic
          and cytoskeleton fractions in microarray analysis, was
          confirmed. cDNA was synthesized from each sample by
          incubating 1 ug RNA sample with 0.5 mM each dNTP, 0.25
          μg/ml random hexamer (Boehringer Mannheim), 10 U RNase
          inhibitor, and 10 U OmniScript reverse transcriptase in
          OmniScript RT Buffer (Qiagen). Two microliters of
          serially diluted template cDNA (1:3, 1:9, 1:27, 1:81,
          1:243, 1:729 in ddH 
          2 O) was used for each PCR reaction in
          a total volume of 24 μl containing 10 pmol of each
          primer, 0.2 mM each dNTP and 2.5 U Taq DNA polymerase in
          Qiagen PCR buffer. PCR cycling conditions were 4 min at
          94°C and then 24, 26 or 30 cycles of 45 sec at 94°C, 45
          sec at 55-63°C and 1 min at 72°C. PCR products were
          separated by agarose gel electrophoresis, stained with
          ethidium bromide and visualized in a FluorImager
          (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnydale, CA). To determine
          conditions of log-linear amplification (with slope = 1),
          the PCR products from each dilution of cDNA template were
          quantified using NIH Image software.
        
      
      
        Authors' contributions
        AB carried out all experiments described in this work
        and drafted the manuscript. SH participated in the design
        of the study and assisted in analysis of the microarray
        data. DEI participated in the design and coordination of
        the study. All authors read and approved the final
        manuscript.
      
    
  
