
  
    
      
        Background
        Traditionally, techniques for the study of gene
        expression were significantly limited in both breadth and
        efficiency since these studies typically allowed
        investigators to study only one or a few genes at a time.
        However, the recently developed DNA microarray technique is
        a powerful method that provides researchers with the
        opportunity to analyze the expression patterns of tens of
        thousands of genes in a short time [ 1 ] . Presently,
        several vendors offer these microarray systems, also known
        as chips, with a variety of technologies available.
        Currently, DNA microarrays are manufactured using either
        cDNA or oligonucleotides as gene probes. cDNA microarrays
        are created by spotting amplified cDNA fragments in a high
        density pattern onto a solid substrate such as a glass
        slide [ 1 2 ] . Oligonucleotide arrays are either spotted
        or constructed by chemically synthesizing approximately
        25-mer oligonucleotide probes directly onto a glass or
        silicon surface using photolithographic technology [ 3 ]
        .
        Due to the powerful nature of microarrays, the number of
        relevant publications in this burgeoning field is
        increasing exponentially. During the years 1995-1997, the
        number of reports featuring microarray data was less than
        ten. However, in 2001 alone approximately 800 publications
        featured data generated by microarray studies (according to
        a PubMed search).
        Microarray technology certainly has the potential to
        greatly enhance our knowledge about gene expression, but
        there are drawbacks that need to be considered. As Knight [
        4 ] cautioned, it is possible that errors could be
        incorporated during the manufacture of the chips.
        Consequently, the fidelity of the DNA fragments immobilized
        to the microarray surface may be compromised. However,
        there are few studies where the majority of the gene
        sequences spotted on the microarrays were verified [ 5 ] .
        Kuo 
        et al (2002) compared the data from
        two high-throughput DNA microarray technologies, cDNA
        microarray (Stanford type) and oligonucleotide microarray
        (from Affymetrix) and found very little correlation between
        these two platforms [ 6 ] . Unfortunately, many
        investigators are reporting microarray data without
        confirming their results by other traditional gene
        expression techniques such as PCR, Northern blot analysis
        and RNase protection assay. Raw microarray data obtained
        from questionable nucleotide sequences are then often
        manipulated using cluster and statistical analysis software
        and subsequently reported in scientific journals. In
        addition the quality of the probe sequences and the
        location of the probes selected for incorporation into the
        array are also very important. For example, if probes are
        selected only from the 3' end of a given gene, then there
        is a strong possibility that different splice variants of
        that gene will not be identified if the alternative
        splicing occurs at the 5' region of the gene.
        The development of a single chip containing the complete
        gene set for a given tissue or for a complex organism
        (30,000 to 60,000 genes) is likely in the near future, so
        it is paramount that chip manufacturers avoid these
        problems [ 7 ] . In this report, we demonstrate that
        microarray technology continues to be a dynamic and
        developing process and highlight potential pitfalls that
        must be addressed when interpreting data.
      
      
        Results
        
          Inconsistent sequence fidelity of spotted cDNA
          microarrays
          cDNA microarray analysis was performed using the
          UniGEM-V chip (IncyteGenomics, Palo Alto, CA) with mRNA
          isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)
          of a large granular lymphocyte leukemia patient and a
          healthy control. In this microarray, 7075 immobilized
          cDNA fragments (4107 from known genes and 2968 ESTs) were
          immobilized onto a glass slide. After careful examination
          of the microarray probes, it was determined that the
          majority of the spotted cDNA fragments were from the 3'
          end of the genes. Approximately 80 up-regulated and 12
          down-regulated genes were identified in leukemic LGL. We
          then purchased seventeen clones from IncyteGenomics
          containing cDNA fragments that represent fourteen of the
          up-regulated and three of the down-regulated genes.
          Plasmid DNA was isolated from the clones and the
          sequences were verified. Unfortunately, we found several
          problems with the insert DNA sequences in these clones.
          Four of the seventeen c DNA fragments spotted on the
          microarray contained incorrect sequences (23.5%) (Table
          1).
        
        
          Variable reliability of differential expression
          data
          The cDNA fragments corresponding to differentially
          expressed genes spotted on the microarrays were excised
          from the plasmid DNA and used as probes in Northern
          blots. Out of the seventeen only eight provided positive
          results as indicated by microarray (47%). Although all
          the sequences for the down-regulated genes were correct,
          Northern blot analysis with these probes did not show any
          differential expression of the genes. This is in contrast
          to the microarray data that suggested they were down
          regulated (Table 1).
        
        
          Low specificity of cDNA microarray probes
          By microarray analysis, it is very difficult to
          distinguish between two genes that share a high degree of
          sequence similarity. Low specificity of probes is also a
          frequently encountered problem in oligonucleotide arrays.
          This problem is especially prevalent in instances where
          DNA sequences are nearly identical between two genes and
          the oligonucleotide probes are generated from the 3' end
          of the genes. For example, the 1.2 kb fragment (GB
          Accession No. M 57888) spotted on the cDNA microarray as
          granzyme B was not able to distinguish between 
          granzyme B and 
          H (Fig. 1a). The balanced
          differential expression of 6.3 was calculated. A probe
          set was generated by Affymetrix using the similar
          sequence information (GB Accession No.M28879) and
          according to oligonucleotide array, 
          granzyme B was shown to be
          up-regulated (fold change 21.5: Fig. 1b). Northern blot
          analysis (using the same fragment as probe) did not
          discriminate between the genes for 
          granzyme B versus 
          granzyme H (Fig. 1c). However, by
          using gene-specific probes in an RNase protection assay,
          we were able to demonstrate the over-expression of 
          granzyme B and 
          granzyme H separately in leukemic
          LGL cells (Fig. 1dand 1e).
        
        
          Discrepancy in fold change calculation for a given
          gene
          It is very difficult to compare the exact fold change
          between two microarray techniques, and no standard value
          system is currently in place to compare the changes found
          in one microarray to the next. This fact was clearly
          demonstrated by Kuo et al (2002) in their recent
          publication [ 6 ] . In this paper we compared the fold
          change (Affymetrix) and balanced differential expression
          (cDNA) with Northern blot expression. For example, our
          IncyteGenomics cDNA microarray data demonstrated only a
          3.8 differential expression in the expression of 
          perforin (Fig. 2a), a pore-forming
          protein produced by cytolytic lymphocytes [ 8 ] in
          leukemic LGL cells, whereas the oligonucleotide
          microarray indicated a 103 fold increase (Fig. 2b). Using
          a probe identical to the one spotted on the cDNA
          microarray, we performed a Northern blot analysis. The
          blot demonstrated the up-regulation of the 
          perforin transcript in leukemia LGL
          cells (Fig. 2c), but the fold increase was neither 103 as
          indicated by oligonucleotide array nor 3.8 as determined
          by the cDNA microarray data. Instead, the actual value
          was determined to fall between these two extreme values.
          These observations strongly suggest that results for
          significantly altered genes should be confirmed with
          other traditional techniques such as Northern blots or
          RNase protection assays prior to reporting the fold
          increase.
        
        
          Lack of probe specificity for gene isoforms
          One of the genes spotted on the cDNA microarray that
          we are interested in is ( 
          Phosphatase in Activated Cells ) 
          PAC-1 [ 9 ] . The differential
          expression of 
          PAC-1 by both cDNA microarray
          (differential expression 4.2) and oligonucleotide arrays
          (fold change 1.6) is shown in Figures 3aand 3b. Using a
          cDNA fragment identical to the 
          PAC-1 probe on the cDNA microarray,
          we performed a Northern blot analysis and confirmed the
          over-expression of two transcripts in leukemic LGL cells
          (Fig. 3c). RT-PCR was performed using total RNA from
          leukemic LGL and specific probes designed to amplify
          full-length PAC-1. We did not see amplification of any
          product. In addition, we found no PAC-1 expression using
          two different monoclonal anti-PAC-1 antibodies in Western
          blot analysis (data not shown). The monoclonal antibodies
          obtained from Santa Cruz were based on the amino acid
          sequence information obtained from the N-terminus and
          C-terminus of the PAC-1. The results of all the
          experiments did not confirm the over-expression of 
          PAC-1 . Therefore, to obtain more
          information about the structure of the 
          PAC-1 related genes in leukemic
          LGL, we screened an LGL leukemia cDNA library using a 1.2
          kb 
          PAC-1 cDNA fragment and identified
          similar genes which are different forms of 
          PAC-1 (GenBank Accession #AF331843,
          the other sequence is not deposited). Similarly an
          anti-apoptotic gene 
          A20 is also over-expressed in
          leukemic LGL, but protein expression was absent when
          Western blots were performed with monoclonal antibodies
          raised against the amino acid sequence derived from A20
          (data not shown).
          Likewise, another gene of interest, 
          NKG2 C , showed a balanced
          differential expression of 5.5 (Fig. 4a). By using a
          probe derived from an 
          NKG2 C clone, we identified a
          number of transcripts by Northern blot analysis (Fig.
          4b). In order to ascertain more structural information,
          we again screened the LGL leukemia library and identified
          the presence of several members of the 
          NKG2 gene family including 
          NKG2 A, NKG2 D, NKG2 E and 
          NKG2 F (GB Accession Nos. AF461812,
          AF461811, AF461157) [ 10 ] . Therefore, if genes similar
          to 
          NKG2 family members are spotted on
          a microarray, it may be difficult to confirm which form
          of the gene is differentially expressed in a given
          sample.
        
        
          Mismatch probe sets mask the perfect match signals
          in oligonucleotide array (Affymetrix)
          In order to accomplish the highest sensitivity and
          specificity in the presence of a complex background,
          Affymetrix introduced a system that entails the use of a
          series of specific and non-specific gene probe sets that
          are intended to result in a more accurate discrimination
          between true signal and random hybridization. Each probe
          set consists of a pair of 25-mer probes, one that
          represents a perfect match (PM)to the mRNA of interest,
          and a second probe differing by only one nucleotide, the
          mismatch (MM). The mismatch in the middle position
          theoretically provides maximal disruption of
          hybridization. Unfortunately, the use of the mismatch
          probe information can interfere with fold change
          calculations of gene expression. For example, 
          perforin transcripts showed strong
          hybridization to both PM and MM probe sets. As a
          consequence, the strong MM signal masked the PM signal
          resulting in a low expression readout, even though the
          gene was present in normal PBMC (Fig. 2b). Therefore, the
          subsequently calculated fold increase from the test
          sample was extraordinarily high and deemed unreliable.
          Similarly, the fold change calculation was underestimated
          for 
          PAC-1 due to the strong signal
          displayed for MM probe set (Fig. 3b). Genes such 
          as human auto-antigen (GenBank
          Accession #L26339) and 
          carboxyl ester lipase-like
          protein (GenBank Accession #L14813), are additional
          examples where these genes are present in LGL sample, but
          because of the strong signals associated with some of the
          MM probes, they are considered absent in the samples
          (Fig. 5aand 5b).
        
      
      
        Discussion
        In order to identify the differentially expressed genes
        in large granular lymphocytic (LGL) leukemia, we performed
        microarray analysis using the UniGEM-V microarray from
        IncyteGenomics and the HU6800 oligonucleotide array from
        Affymetrix. In the course of our analysis, we discovered
        several problems that we feel could occur in other studies
        that might lead to false conclusions.
        Approximately 80 up-regulated genes and 12
        down-regulated genes were identified by cDNA microarray
        analysis in leukemic LGL cells. Since microarray technology
        was a new tool at that time, we decided to verify the
        sequences of all the genes that were differentially
        expressed. To that end, we purchased approximately 20
        clones representing the differentially expressed genes and
        verified the sequences. We found that only approximately
        70% of the genes spotted on the microarray matched the
        correct sequence of the clones. Other groups reported
        similar observations. For example, IMAGE mouse cDNA clones
        (approximately 1200) were purchased from Research Genetics
        (Huntsville, Alabama) and sequences were verified by
        Halgren 
        et al [ 11 ] . This group found that
        only 62% were definitely identified as a pure sample of the
        correct clones. In another study, PCR amplification
        products (previously sequence-verified cDNA clones) were
        re-sequenced and only 79% of the clones matched the
        original database [ 12 ] . In a different study, it was
        estimated that only 80% of the genes in a set of microarray
        experiments were correctly identified [ 5 ] . Therefore, we
        advise that when preparing cDNA microarrays (commercial or
        homemade), it is necessary to sequence verify each clone at
        the final stage before printing the microarray. If mistakes
        are made at this stage, it is not possible to correct them
        later by using the most sophisticated analytical tools.
        We used cDNA microarray analysis to compare the gene
        expression profile of leukemic LGL cells obtained from a
        patient versus the expression profile of PBMC obtained from
        a normal healthy individual as a control. We decided to
        verify the microarray results using samples from more
        patients by employing the use of other methods such as PCR,
        Northern blot and RNase protection assay. To our surprise,
        none of the three down-regulated genes studied exhibited
        differential expression in Northern blots when the cDNA
        fragments of these genes were used as probes. In the
        up-regulated genes, only 47 % proved to support the results
        from the microarray data. The rest either displayed no
        signal, were not detectable in any sample or failed to
        reveal any differential expression whatsoever. Although
        some genes such as 
        PAC-1 and 
        A20 showed differential expression in
        LGL leukemia patients, no product amplification was
        obtained using RT-PCR with gene-specific primers.
        By microarray analysis, it is very difficult to
        distinguish between two similar genes. The best example in
        our case is when 
        granzyme B and 
        granzyme H are compared. These two
        genes share approximately 80% similarity at the DNA level
        but have different enzymatic activities [ 13 14 ] . Using
        either one of the genes as a probe, both cDNA microarray
        and northern blot analysis indicated over-expression of
        both genes indiscriminately (Fig. 1). However, using
        gene-specific probes in an RNase protection assay, we were
        able to distinctly identify the over-expression of both 
        granzyme B and 
        H in leukemic LGL cells (Fig. 1dand
        1e). In normal PBMC only trace amounts of both genes were
        identified, but after activation by PHA and IL2 only 
        granzyme B was up-regulated. It is
        very difficult to get this information by microarray
        analysis alone. Therefore, caution in presenting microarray
        data without verification and confirmation is advised.
        When the results from two different microarray
        technologies (cDNA and oligonucleotide arrays) were
        compared, the differential expression in some of the genes
        appeared to agree in both cases but a large variation in
        expression profiles between the two microarrays was clearly
        evident. Previously, such systematic differences in the two
        technologies were reported [ 6 ] . For example, 
        perforin showed a 103-fold change in
        the Affymetrix array, whereas the cDNA microarray showed
        only a balanced differential expression of 3.8-fold.
        Northern blot results indicate that the genes were
        over-expressed, but the actual value is in between the
        values from the two microarrays. This problem may be due to
        an inaccurate fold change calculation due to the inclusion
        of mismatch values in the formula. We observed that many
        over-expressed genes were not properly identified at times.
        This may be the result of the introduction of mismatch
        values in the Affymetrix system. For example, genes for 
        human autoantigen and 
        human carboxyl ester lipase-like
        protein would be considered up-regulated in the
        microarray (according to PM match hybridization) if the MM
        hybridization values were ignored in the fold change
        calculation.
        DNA microarray anlysis can be a powerful technique to
        identify differentially expressed genes but differentiating
        between splice variants can be problematic. For example,
        although the differential expression of the several genes
        such as 
        PAC-1 and 
        A20 were confirmed by northern blot
        analysis, we were unable to see any expression of protein
        corresponding to these genes by Western blot analysis. We
        were also unable to amplify those genes using gene-specific
        primers by RT-PCR. After screening the LGL library, we
        obtained several full-length genes that were different from
        both the 5' and 3' ends of 
        PAC1 . Similarly, we screened an LGL
        leukemia library and obtained several 1.5 kb cDNA fragments
        using the 
        A20 cDNA as a probe. The deduced
        amino acid sequences of these genes revealed different
        proteins.
        We found an up-regulation of 
        NKG2C with a balanced differential
        expression of 5.8 in cDNA microarray (Fig. 4a). When
        Northern Blot analysis was performed using 
        NKG2 C cDNA as a probe, we identified
        multiple transcripts. Screening the LGL leukemia library
        resulted in the identification of several other members of
        the 
        NKG2 family such as 
        NKG2 A, D, E , and 
        F [ 10 ] . Therefore, it can be very
        difficult to distinguish different forms of genes if they
        are similar in certain sequence regions.
      
      
        Conclusions
        At the time of writing this report there were
        approximately 1150 articles published describing microarray
        results (PubMed). There is no doubt that these results will
        provide an overall idea of gene expression and contribute
        to understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in
        various processes. However, as demonstrated by our
        findings, the development of a standardized microarray
        system is needed to obtain more meaningful data from these
        experiments. The introduction of more uniform systems
        combined with the consideration of the above described
        pitfalls and alternatives will allow better utilization of
        this powerful technique in an expanding collection of
        scientific endeavors. It will be very helpful for the
        scientific community if the verified data is deposited in a
        public data base.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Isolation of PBMC and RNA
          PBMC were isolated from whole blood using
          Ficoll-Hypaque density gradient centrifugation. These
          cells were suspended in Trizol reagent (GIBCO-BRL,
          Rockville, MD) and total RNA was isolated immediately
          according to the manufacturer's instructions. Poly A+ RNA
          was isolated from total RNA by using Oligo-Tex mini mRNA
          kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) according to the
          manufacturer's recommendations.
        
        
          Activation of PBMC
          Normal PBMC were cultured 
          in vitro and activated by PHA,
          (Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis, MO) (1 μg/ml, 2 days) and
          Interleukin-2 (IL-2) (100 U/ml, 10 days), then total RNA
          was isolated.
        
        
          cDNA microarray analysis
          Microarray probing and analysis was performed by
          IncyteGenomics. Briefly, one μg of Poly (A) + RNA
          isolated from PBMC of an LGL leukemia patient and healthy
          individual was reverse transcribed to generate Cy3 and
          Cy5 fluorescent labeled cDNA probes. cDNA probes were
          competitively hybridized to a human UniGEM-V cDNA
          microarray containing approximately 7075 immobilized cDNA
          fragments (4107 for known genes and 2968 for ESTs).
          Microarrays were scanned in both Cy3 and Cy5 channels
          with an Axon GenePix scanner (Foster City, CA) with a 10
          μm resolution. P1 and P2 signals are the intensity
          reading obtained by the scanner for Cy3 and Cy5 channels.
          The balanced differential expression was calculated using
          the ratio between the P1 signal (intensity reading for
          probe 1) and the balanced P2 signal (intensity reading
          for probe 2 adjusted using the balanced coefficient)
          Incyte GEMtools software (Incyte Pharmaceuticals,
          Inc., Palo Alto, CA) was used for image analysis. A
          gridding and region detection algorithm determined the
          elements. The area surrounding each element image was
          used to calculate a local background and was subtracted
          from the total element signal. Background subtracted
          element signals were used to calculate Cy3:Cy5 ratio. The
          average of the resulting total Cy3 and Cy5 signal gave a
          ratio that was used to balance or normalize the
          signals.
        
        
          Oligonucleotide microarray analysis
          The HU 6800 microarray was obtained from Affymetrix
          (Santa Clara, CA). Briefly, total RNA isolated from
          normal PBMC and leukemic LGL were DNase-treated and
          purified with a Qiagen kit (Valencia, CA). Approximately
          10 μg of purified RNA was used to prepare double-stranded
          cDNA (Supercript GIBCO/BRL, Rockville, MD) using a T7
          (dT)24 primer containing a T7 RNA polymerase promoter
          binding site. Biotinylated complementary RNA was prepared
          from 10 μg of cDNA and then fragmented to approximately
          50 to 100 nucleotides. 
          In vitro transcribed transcripts
          were hybridized to the HU 6800 microarray for 16 h at
          45°C with constant rotation at 60 rpm. Chips were washed
          and stained by using the Affymetrix fluidics station.
          Fluorescence intensity was measured for each chip and
          normalized to the fluorescence intensity for the entire
          chip.
        
        
          Verification of the clones
          GEM cDNA clones (supplied as a bacterial stab) were
          purchased from IncyteGenomics and streaked on LB agar
          plates containing the appropriate antibiotic. Individual
          colonies were picked and grown in LB medium. Plasmid DNA
          was isolated and sequenced in order to verify the
          sequence identity.
        
        
          Northern blot analysis
          Northern Blotting was performed as described. Briefly
          10 μg of total RNA from each sample was denatured at 65°C
          in RNA loading buffer, electrophoresed in a 1% agarose
          gel containing 2.2 M formaldehyde, then blotted onto a
          Nytran membrane (Schleicher & Schuell, Inc, Keene,
          N.H). The RNA was fixed to the membrane by UV
          cross-linking. cDNA was labeled with [ 32P] and purified
          using Nick columns (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech AB,
          Piscataway, NJ). Hybridization and washing of the blots
          were performed as described by Engler-Blum et al [ 15 ]
          .
        
        
          RNase protection assay (RPA)
          RPAs were performed using the RNA isolated from
          leukemic LGL, normal PBMC and normal PBMC activated by
          IL-2 and PHA. Five μg of total RNA was hybridized to the 
          in vitro transcribed hAPO-4 probe
          set (PharMingen, SanDiego, CA), and the RPA assay was
          performed according to the manufacturer's protocol. After
          the assay, the samples were resolved on a 5%
          polyacrylamide gel. The gel was dried and exposed to
          X-ray film. After developing the film, the bands were
          quantitated by using the ImageQuant program and
          normalized with the housekeeping gene, L32.
        
        
          Western immunoblot analysis
          Cells were lysed in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl
          (pH 7.6), 5 mM EDTA, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % NP-40, and 0.5%
          Triton X-100 containing 1 μg/ml leupeptin, aprotinin and
          antipain; 1 mM sodiumorthovanadate; and 0.5 mM PMSF (all
          reagents were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co.).
          Twenty-five μg of total protein from each sample was
          subjected to 10% SDS-PAGE. Then the proteins were
          transferred to a membrane and Western blotting was
          performed using the monoclonal antibody for PAC-1 and
          A20, followed by the ECL technique as recommended by the
          manufacturer (Amersham Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ).
        
      
      
        Authors' contributions
        RK conceived of the study along with TPL, isolated,
        purified RNA from the samples for microarray and performed
        all the experiments to validate the microarray data and
        analysed the data and drafted the manuscript. SJY verified
        the microarray data and participated in validation of the
        microarray. SM performed microarray analysis and analyzed
        the data and TPL conceived of the study, and participated
        in its design and coordination.
      
    
  
