
  
    
      
        Introduction
        The study of gene function has been greatly advanced
        through the use of transgenic mice. Over-expression and
        ectopic expression of transgenes, as well as the expression
        of genetic variants, has facilitated the deciphering of
        complex cellular processes as well as the generation of
        animal models of disease. More recently, transgenic mice
        have also been used to express Cre recombinase to mediate
        the conditional deletion of 
        loxP -flanked DNA sequences in
        specific cell types 
        in vivo . Traditional methods for
        generating transgenic mice require the availability of well
        characterized transcriptional regulatory elements,
        promoters or enhancers, that direct transgene expression in
        specific cell types. For example, 
        Surfactant protein C regulatory
        elements have been used extensively to drive high level
        expression of transgenes in the lung [ 1, 2, 3, 4].
        Similarly, 
        Transthyretin regulatory elements
        confer expression of transgenes in the liver [ 5, 6].
        Unfortunately, the number well-characterized
        enhancers/promoters available for transgene expression is
        limited. This is due to the fact that, although 
        in situ hybridization and RNA
        blotting techniques can rapidly characterize the expression
        patterns of genes, the identification of regulatory
        elements that control cell type-specific expression in
        animals is extremely laborious. An additional complication
        associated with traditional transgenic approaches is that
        the number and genomic location of transgene integration
        events is random. This can have a significant impact on
        both the level and site of transgene expression. These
        problems can be circumvented, however, by utilizing
        endogenous regulatory elements. This can be achieved by
        introducing transgenes into defined genomic loci through
        homologous recombination in ES cells ("knock-in") [ 7].
        While this approach requires knowledge of the gene
        expression pattern it does not require any analysis of gene
        regulatory elements. Such a "knock-in" approach would, in
        effect, significantly increase the repertoire of regulatory
        elements available to drive transgene expression. Moreover,
        it ensures that a single copy of the transgene is
        introduced into a defined genomic location. The
        introduction of 
        LacZ into specific genes during the
        generation of knockout mice has demonstrated that such an
        approach can be successful [ 8, 9]. The downside, however,
        is that every individual transgene an investigator wishes
        to express must be independently targeted to the chosen
        genomic locus. This can be tedious, especially if the rate
        of recombination at the chosen genomic locus is low. Here,
        we describe a simple method that allows transgenes targeted
        to a marked genomic locus to be selected with extremely
        high efficiency in ES cells. This approach is also
        appealing because it relies on reconstitution of active
        neomycin phosphotransferase activity, and so correctly
        targeted ES cell clones can be simply selected by growth in
        G418.
      
      
        Results
        Fig 1illustrates the overall strategy that we have used
        to introduce single copy transgenes into a defined genomic
        locus. For convenience the procedure can be considered in
        three distinct steps. First a specific genomic locus is
        chosen based on known gene expression data. In the example
        presented here we chose the 
        Hnf3 α locus because Hnf3α is
        expressed throughout the embryonic gut endoderm of the
        mouse and our ultimate objective is to assess the function
        of transgenes expressed in this tissue [ 10, 11, 12, 13].
        In addition, mice lacking a single 
        Hnf3 α allele have no observable
        phenotype, so that introduction of transgenes into this
        locus will not inherently affect embryonic development [
        14, 15]. Once the locus is chosen a targeting vector is
        designed to introduce a 
        pgk/loxP-Neo cassette that confers
        resistance to G418 in mammalian cells. Importantly, the 
        pgk promoter of this cassette is
        flanked by 
        loxP elements so that the promoter
        can easily be removed using Cre recombinase. In step 2 a
        Cre-expression plasmid is transiently introduced into the 
        pgk/loxP-Neo targeted ES cells.
        Cre-mediated deletion of the 
        pgk promoter results in the cells
        reverting to G418 sensitivity while retaining the 
        Neo gene. Step 2 is rapid and
        straightforward because Cre-mediated recombination is
        extremely efficient. The generation of these G418-sensitive
        ES cells containing 
        Neo integrated into the 
        Hnf3 α locus form the basis for
        targeting transgenes to this locus.
        In step 3, a general targeting vector is constructed
        that will allow the introduction of transgenes to the 
        Hnf3α/Neo locus. The salient features
        of such a vector are shown in Fig 2. A unique 
        SalI restriction endonuclease site
        allows the introduction of coding sequences into this
        vector. A 3' splice site and polyadenylation signal has
        been incorporated to facilitate proper post-transciptional
        processing of transgenes. Targeting of transgenes to the 
        Hnf3α/Neo locus is mediated by two
        arms of homology. The 3' arm of homology contains
        nucleotides 29 to 626 of the 
        Neo coding sequence with an
        accompanying 
        pgk promoter flanked by 
        loxP elements. No G418 resistant
        colonies were obtained when plasmids containing this
        truncated 
        Neo cassette were introduced into
        wild type ES cells by electroporation (data not shown).
        This confirmed that deletion of the 3'-end of 
        Neo results in loss of resistance to
        G418 [ 16]. The 5' region of homology consisted of 4.5 kb
        of 
        Hnf3 α genomic sequence that extends
        into sequences encoding the untranslated 5' leader region
        of 
        Hnf3 α mRNA [ 17]. These sequences
        ensure that the site of transcriptional initiation remains
        intact after transgenes have been targeted to the 
        Hnf3 α locus [ 17].
        To ascertain whether the strategy proposed in Fig 1was
        feasible and to determine the efficiency of such an
        approach we attempted to introduce a 
        lacZ transgene into the 
        Hnf3 α locus. The genotype of ES cell
        clones from each step of the procedure was determined by
        Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA (Fig 3). Figs 3aand
        3bshow that the genotype of ES cells at each stage of the
        procedure could be distinguished by genomic Southern blot
        analysis using a single DNA probe (probe A) to identify a 
        Hind III/EcoRV restriction
        endonuclease fragment that was specific to each targeted
        allele. In step1 we introduced a 
        pgkloxP-Neo cassette into the 
        Hnf3 α locus following the procedure
        described in materials and methods. Fig 3bshows that probe
        A identifies an 8.0 kb 
        Hind III/EcoRV fragment in wild type
        ES cells. Targeting of a 
        pgkloxP-Neo cassette to this locus
        introduces a unique 
        EcoRV site that generates a 4.0 kb 
        HindIII/EcoRV fragment also detected
        by probe A. We obtained four correctly targeted ES cell
        clones out of 200 that were resistant to both G418 and
        gancyclovir (Fig 3b). In addition to the data shown in Fig
        3b, the genotype of these colonies was confirmed by
        Southern blot using DNA fragments that corresponded to 3' 
        Hnf3 α genomic sequences and to 
        Neo (not shown). These correctly
        targeted ES cell clones were called Hnf3αloxPNeo clones 1-4
        to indicate that a 
        pgkloxP-Neo cassette had been
        introduced into the 
        Hnf3 α locus. Next, a plasmid that
        expresses Cre-recombinase in mammalian cells was introduced
        into Hnf3αloxPNeo ES cells by transient transfection
        (materials and methods). The expression of Cre recombinase
        mediated recombination between the 
        loxP elements that flanked the 
        pgk promoter. Southern blot analysis
        (fig 3) shows that deletion of the 
        pgk promoter in Hnf3αloxPNeo cells
        generated a predicted 3.5 kb 
        HindIII/EcoRV fragment that was
        detected by probe A. Moreover, Fig 3cshows that deletion of
        the 
        pgk promoter resulted in the
        Hnf3αloxPNeo cells reverting to G418-sensitivity because
        the promoter is necessary for 
        Neo expression. The 
        pgk promoter was deleted from 25% of
        transfected Hnf3αloxPNeo ES cells, using the approach
        described in materials and methods. ES cell lines from
        which the 
        pgk promoter had been deleted were
        named Hnf3αΔpgk-Neo to indicate this event.
        Our ultimate goal is to target a number of different
        transgenes to the 
        Hnf3 α locus with the aim of
        expressing them ectopically throughout the embryonic gut
        endoderm. To facilitate this we have designed a general
        targeting vector that can accommodate and allow expression
        of any open reading frame when targeted to the 
        Hnf3 α locus in Hnf3αΔpgk-Neo ES
        cells. There are a number of important features associated
        with this vector that are illustrated in Fig 2. This
        plasmid includes a unique 
        SalI restriction endonuclease
        cut-site for insertion of open reading frames, followed by
        intron and poly- [A] addition sequences for correct
        post-transcriptional processing of transgenic RNA. The 5'
        arm of homology within the targeting vector defines where
        the transgene is positioned relative to the 
        Hnf3 α locus. We maintained the
        integrity of the endogenous 
        Hnf3 α transcriptional start-site to
        ensure bona-fide expression of any inserted transgene. This
        was achieved by using a 5' arm of homology whose 3' end lay
        within genomic sequences encoding the untranslated leader
        of the 
        Hnf3 α mRNA (Fig 2) [ 17]. The 3' arm
        of homology consisted of the 5' end of 
        Neo coding sequence accompanied by
        the 
        pgk promoter with flanking 
        loxP elements. This 
        Neo fragment lacked sequences
        encoding the last 49 amino acids of neomycin
        phosphotransferase. Such truncation of the 
        Neo gene disrupted its ability to
        encode resistance to G418 confirming the results of Beck 
        et al (data not shown) [ 16].
        Therefore, ES cells that randomly integrate this targeting
        vector would remain sensitive to G418. In contrast, we
        predicted that homologous recombination between the
        truncated 
        Neo sequences in the targeting vector
        and 
        Neo sequences within Hnf3αΔpgk-Neo ES
        cells would reconstitute expression of active neomycin
        phosphotransferase and so confer resistance to G418. This
        in turn implies that, following electroporation of this
        targeting vector into Hnf3αΔpgk-Neo ES cells, 100% of G418
        resistant colonies would have undergone homologous
        recombination. To test this prediction we generated a
        targeting vector that contained the 
        LacZ gene from 
        E.coli. Homologous recombination
        should place expression of this transgene under the control
        of 
        Hnf3 α transcriptional regulatory
        elements. This plasmid was introduced into Hnf3αΔpgk-Neo ES
        cells by electroporation and fifteen colonies were
        collected that were resistant to G418. The genotype of the
        colonies was again ascertained by Southern blot analysis of
        genomic DNA. Fig 3α shows that introduction of the 
        LacZ transgene into the 
        Hnf3 α locus was predicted to
        generate a 2.7 kb 
        HindIII / 
        EcoRV fragment that interacts with
        probe A. Fig 4shows that fifteen out of fifteen ES cell
        lines that were resistant to G418 had undergone homologous
        recombination and contained the 
        LacZ transgene correctly targeted to
        the 
        Hnf3 α locus. These data confirm the
        extraordinary efficiency of using this approach to target
        transgenes to a marked genomic locus.
        We predicted that transgenes inserted into the 
        Hnf3 α locus would be expressed
        throughout the endoderm of the developing gut. To determine
        if this was true we generated embryos from ES cells
        containing LacZ at the 
        Hnf3 α locus ( 
        Hnf3αLacZ ES cells) and stained for
        expression of β-galactosidase. Mouse embryos derived solely
        from ES cells were generated by tetraploid aggregation as
        described previously [ 18, 19, 20]. A total of 10 embryos
        were produced and all showed the same pattern of
        β-galactosidase expression. Fig 4bshows β-galactosidase
        staining in 
        Hnf3αLacZ embryos at 10.5 days of
        embryonic development. As expected, β-galactosidase was
        expressed throughout the gut, liver and at particularly
        high levels in the developing stomach. Endogenous Hnf3α is
        also expressed in the floorplate of the neural tube as well
        as the notochord. However, expression of β-galactosidase in
        
        Hnf3αLacZ transgenic embryos was
        undetectable in these tissues. In generating the 
        Hnf3αLacZ targeting vector we deleted
        all genomic sequences lying 3' to the first intron of the 
        Hnf3 α gene. It is likely that this
        intron or other untranslated sequences contain regulatory
        elements that specifically direct expression of 
        Hnf3αLacZ in the floorplate of the
        neural tube and notochord [ 21]. Indeed when 
        LacZ is introduced into exon 2 in ES
        cells, leaving the first intron intact, expression of
        β-galactosidase is readily detectable in the neural-tube
        floorplate and notochord [ 9].
      
      
        Discussion and conclusions
        We have described a method that allows transgenes to be
        easily targeted to a defined locus in the mouse genome in
        ES cells. Although this is a multiple-step procedure, once
        the chosen locus has been targeted using homologous
        recombination, subsequent manipulations are extremely
        efficient. Indeed in the final step, where the transgene of
        interest is targeted to the desired locus, we found that
        100% of G418 resistant ES cell colonies were correctly
        targeted. Transgenic mice and embryos can be generated from
        these ES cells by standard injection into blastocysts and
        subsequent breeding of the resulting chimeric mice. It is
        worth noting, however, that if germline transmission is the
        aim of the experiment it is important to ensure that the
        "Δpgk-Neo" cells generated in step 2 are germline
        competent. This is important because each round of clonal
        selection increases the likelihood of losing germline
        competency of the ES cells.
        The targeting of transgenes into a given locus has a
        number of advantages over traditional methods of generating
        transgenic mice. Traditionally, transgenic mice are
        produced by injection of DNA into the male pronucleus of
        fertilized mouse eggs. A variable number of copies of the
        transgene are then integrated into the mouse genome at
        random locations. The position and number of transgene
        copies can have a profound effect on their expression. In
        some cases expression is repressed or, in contrast,
        undesirably activated at ectopic sites. When transgenes are
        targeted to a known genomic locus such variation is avoided
        and expression of the transgene is significantly more
        predictable [ 7]. Such control over the site and level of
        expression is important because variations could have
        unpredictable impacts on the phenotype presented by the
        transgenic mice.
        Introduction of single copy transgenes into the 
        hydroxyphosphoribosyl
        transferase (HPRT) locus has been previously described
        by Bronson 
        et al . This approach successfully
        overcomes the problems associated with the integration of
        variable copy numbers of transgenes into random genomic
        locations. However, it is only suitable for introduction of
        transgenes to the HPRT locus and, in addition, requires the
        availability of HPRT-negative ES cell lines. Cre-mediated
        targeting of single copy transgenes to specific genomic
        sites that have previously been marked by 
        loxP elements has also been described
        both in somatic cells and more recently in ES cells using a
        double 
        LoxP targeting strategy [ 22, 23].
        Although this approach also results in efficient targeting
        to a defined genomic locus it relies on co-transfection of
        a Cre expression plasmid along with a 
        loxP -targeting vector that carries
        the transgene. Hardouin 
        et al also recently described an
        elegant approach to introduce transgenes to loci identified
        by gene trapping. Here integration of the transgene at the
        gene-trap locus was again mediated by Cre recombinase and
        translation of the transgene was facilitated by an internal
        ribosomal entry site (IRES) [ 24]. In contrast, our
        approach relies simply on the reconstitution of resistance
        to G418 and can be used to target transgenes to any genomic
        locus.
        Transgenic mice are often used to examine gene function
        through ectopic expression studies. This requires the
        availability of characterized transcriptional regulatory
        elements that are capable of expressing transgenes in the
        tissue of choice. In addition, for developmental studies,
        the transcriptional regulatory elements have to ensure
        transgene expression during the correct developmental time
        frame. Although the expression patterns of many genes have
        been described in detail, characterization of promoter and
        enhancer elements that control this expression is much more
        limited. This is partly due to the fact that complex
        expression patterns often utilize genomic regulatory
        sequences that are positioned many kilobases away from the
        gene making them difficult to identify. However, the
        introduction of transgenes into specific loci allows the
        utilization of intact endogenous transcription regulatory
        sequences, which increases the likelihood that the
        transgene will be expressed in the expected fashion.
        Using targeted ES cells also provides the potential of
        expressing lethal transgenes. This may be important for
        examining the effects of expressing gain-of-function or
        dominant-negative alleles of a gene product. This is
        difficult using a conventional approach because of the need
        to establish founder mice expressing the transgene.
        However, if a line of "transgenic" ES cells can be
        established then it is possible to generate clonal embryos
        directly from these ES cells by aggregating them with
        tetraploid embryos. Indeed, here we have used this approach
        to establish that the introduction of a 
        LacZ transgene into the 
        Hnf3 α locus facilitates transgene
        expression throughout the developing gut (Fig 4).
        In sum, we have described a method that facilitates the
        efficient introduction of transgenes into predefined loci
        in the mouse genome. By selecting appropriate sequences for
        homologous recombination this approach can be tailored
        toward any specific genomic locus. We, therefore, believe
        that this approach expands the repertoire of tools
        available for genetic manipulation in the mouse and will
        enhance our ability to address gene function in
        mammals.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Plasmids
          
            Hnf3α targeting vector(p3αloxPNeo-TK)
            A 900 bp Xho1/Xba1 fragment of Hnf3α genomic DNA
            that included exon 1 and a portion of intron 1 was used
            as the 5' arm of homology. The 3' arm of homology was
            cloned as a 4.5 kb Xho1 fragment of Hnf3α genomic DNA.
            A Xho1/HindIII (blunt) cassette containing the Tn5 
            neomycin phosphotransferase ( 
            Neo )gene, that could confer
            resistance to G418 and whose expression in mammalian
            cells was directed by a 
            phosphoglycerate kinase-1 ( 
            pgk) promoter, was introduced
            into an XbaI (blunt) site between the Hnf3α genomic
            sequences [ 16, 25]. The 
            pgk promoter was flanked by 
            loxP elements so that it could be
            deleted by the action of Cre recombinase. The 
            herpes simplex virus thymidine
            kinase ( 
            hsv-TK ) gene, whose expression
            was also regulated by the 
            pgk promoter, was introduced
            adjacent to the Hnf3α 5' arm of homology to provide
            negative selection in the presence of gancylovir.
          
          
            Transgene targeting vector (p3αΔNeo)
            The transgene-targeting vector used in these
            experiments was generated in multiple steps (Fig 2). A
            NotI/RsrII (blunt)1.4 kb cassette containing the 5' end
            of 
            Neo coding sequence accompanied
            by the 
            pgk promoter with flanking 
            loxP elements was introduced into
            the SphI site (blunt) of pNEB193 (New England Biolabs).
            Deletion of the 49 c-terminal codons of the 
            Neo gene disrupted its ability to
            encode resistance to G418 (data not shown) [ 16]. This
            sub-fragment of 
            Neo provided the 3' arm of
            homology in the targeting vector. A 530 bp EcoRI
            fragment (blunt) containing an intron from the mouse
            protamine gene as well as poly(A) addition sequences
            was isolated from the plasmid pLacF and cloned into the
            PmeI site (blunt) of the preceding plasmid [ 26].
            Finally the 5' arm of homology was provided by a 4.5 kb
            Xho I fragment of 
            Hnf3 α genomic DNA that was
            introduced into a unique Pac1 site (blunt) in the
            preceding plasmid. Importantly, this fragment extended
            from 5' genomic DNA into sequences encoding the
            untranslated 5' end of 
            Hnf3 α mRNA. This cloning
            strategy left a unique 
            Sal I site into which coding
            sequences of transgenes could be introduced. A NotI
            (blunt) 3.6 kb lacZ fragment from pCMV-βgal (Clontech)
            was ligated into this SalI (blunt) site to generate a
            targeting vector that could be used to introduce 
            lacZ into the "marked" 
            Hnf3 α locus.
          
          
            Culture and selection of embryonic stem cell
            lines
            All ES cell lines were cultured on mitotically
            inactivated primary embryonic fibroblasts in ES cell
            medium supplemented with recombinant leukemia
            inhibitory factor (LIF) as described elsewhere [ 27].
            Gene targeting was carried out using 100 μg of linear
            targeting plasmid. This was introduced into 2.5 × 10
            8ES cells by electroporation at 250
            volts/500μf/resistance 8 using a BTX ECM600
            electroporation system. Cells were plated on thirteen
            10 cm 2tissue culture dishes and grown for two days in
            ES cell medium supplemented with LIF. Cells containing 
            Neo were selected by
            supplementing the ES cell medium with 300 μg/ml
            Geneticin (G418,Gibco-BRL) and negative selection
            against 
            Hsv-tk gene expression was
            achieved by including 2 μM gancyclovir (Roche).
            Recombination between 
            loxP elements in ES cells was
            mediated by introducing a Cre expression plasmid,
            pHDMCCre8 (provided by Dr. Klaus Kaestner). 100 μg of
            pHDMCCre8 was introduced into 5 × 10 7ES cells by
            electroporation using 400 v/500μf/resistance setting 8.
            1/100,000 of the total electroporated cell population
            was plated per 10 cm 2tissue culture dish in ES cell
            medium supplemented with LIF and grown until individual
            colonies could be collected.
          
          
            Tetraploid aggregation and β-galactosidase
            staining
            Embryos were generated from ES cells by aggregating
            them with 4-cell stage embryos made tetraploid by
            electrofusion, as described previously [ 19, 20, 27].
            Aggregates that formed blastocysts after overnight
            culture were allowed to continue their development 
            in utero by transferring them to
            a pseudopregnant surrogate mother. Embryos were stained
            for expression of β-galactosidase using standard
            techniques [ 28].
          
        
      
      
        Abbreviations
        Neo - neomycin phosphotransferase
        pgk - phosphoglycerate kinase promoter
        Hsv-TK - Herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase
        Hnf - hepatocyte nuclear factor
        LIF - leukemia inhibitory factor
        HPRT - hydroxyphosphoribosyl transferase
      
    
  
