
  
    
      
        Background
        Sequence homology between the serotonin type 3 receptor
        (5-HT 
        3 R), the nicotinic acetylcholine
        receptor (nAChR), the GABA 
        A receptor and the glycine receptor
        suggests a large amount of structural similarity within
        this superfamily of ligand gated ion channels [ 1 2 3 ] .
        This presumed structural homology can be used to guide site
        directed mutagenesis studies of particular receptor
        subtypes. On a gross level, all members of this superfamily
        assemble as pentameric receptors [ 4 ] . In some cases,
        receptors can be assembled from a single subunit (5-HT 
        3A R and nicotinic α7 receptors) [ 1 5 6
        7 8 ] . In other cases, at least two different subunits are
        required [ 2 4 9 ] . The ligand binding site is thought to
        be formed at the junction between two subunits [ 2 4 ]
        .
        Based on data obtained from affinity labeling and site
        directed mutagenesis studies, several regions of the
        nicotinic acetylcholine receptor have been implicated in
        ligand binding [ 10 ] . Six essential loops appear to
        contribute to the binding site with the position of each
        loop differing slightly depending on whether the receptor
        is heteromeric or homomeric [ 4 ] . For homomeric receptors
        such as the α7 nAChR, the loops are identified as A, B, C,
        D, E and F [ 4 11 ] . The amino acids that interact with
        ligands presumably extend into the binding site from these
        loops. Subunits are composed of 2 faces (+ and -) with the
        + face of one subunit forming one side of the binding site
        and the - face of another subunit forming the complimentary
        side. Some binding loops (A, B and C) are present on the -
        face while the remaining loops (D and E) are present on the
        + face. [ 4 ] . The individual amino acids that form
        binding interactions with the functional groups present on
        a ligand are likely to differ for each receptor subtype,
        reflecting the specificity of a particular binding site,
        however, the overall structure of the binding domain may be
        similar even for binding sites with different ligand
        specificities. Identification of ligand specificity
        requires identification of both the location or structure
        of individual binding site loops and the amino acids
        present in a particular receptor subtype.
        The purpose of this study is to extend the information
        available from other members of this receptor family to the
        5-HT 
        3 R. Sequence homology and a presumed
        structural similarity to other ligand gated ion channels
        suggests that the E loop region of the 5-HT 
        3A R forms part of the ligand binding
        domain for 5-HT 
        3 R ligands. This region extends from
        Y140 to K153 and is shown in Table 1. The homologous
        sequences of other representative members of this family
        are also shown. In the center of this region is a critical
        glycine residue that is thought to play a role in
        establishing a hairpin loop [ 12 ] . Recent x-ray
        crystallographic data obtained from an ACh binding protein
        (AChBP) shows a loop structure in this region resulting
        from a 3 residue turn containing a glycine homologous to
        G147 of the 5-HT 
        3 R. On either side of this putative
        turn region are residues that have been identified as
        important to receptor binding [ 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 ] .
        The formation of this loop structure brings amino acids on
        either side of glycine into close proximity and may form a
        binding pocket that will accommodate one or more functional
        groups. In order to identify the interaction of amino acids
        in this binding loop with 5-HT 
        3 R ligands, we have constructed alanine
        mutations of residues throughout this region and evaluated
        the alteration in binding affinity of 5 different classes
        of 5-HT 
        3 R ligands (Figure 1). Our data
        identifies 3 tyrosine residues that appear to interact
        selectively with each structural class and supports the
        existence of a loop structure in this region of the
        receptor.
      
      
        Results
        All mutant receptors were tested for their ability to
        bind the 5-HT 
        3 R antagonist [ 3H]granisetron. Table
        2shows the K 
        d values for wildtype mouse 5-HT 
        3AS Rs and the 13 alanine mutations we
        evaluated. [ 3H]granisetron is a potent antagonist of the
        wt 5-HT 
        3 R (K 
        d = 0.98 ± 0.12 nM). This value agrees
        with published data for this compound [ 19 20 ] . B 
        max values range from the 5.5 pmoles/mg
        protein observed for E148A to 0.30 pmoles/mg protein for
        the K153A mutation, indicating some variability in
        expression of the different receptors. In general, however,
        receptor expression was similar to that reported by other
        laboratories [ 1 20 21 22 ] . No detectable binding was
        observed for G147A and V149A mutant receptors. For all
        other mutants, decreases in binding affinity (increased K 
        d ) were observed although the magnitude
        of the change was less than 10 fold in all cases. A bar
        graph showing the change in K 
        d value resulting from each alanine
        mutation is shown in Figure 2A. The largest decreases in
        binding affinity were observed for Y142A (4.6 fold, Figure
        3), E148A (5.3 fold) and Q150A - K153A (6 - 8 fold).
        Inhibition binding assays were also conducted. Four test
        compounds with structures representative of the major
        classes of 5-HT 
        3 R ligands were chosen: serotonin
        (5-HT, the endogenous agonist), 
        m -chlorophenylbiguanide ( 
        m CPBG, agonist), 
        d -tubocurarine ( 
        d -tc, antagonist) and lerisetron
        (antagonist). The K 
        i values for inhibition of [
        3H]granisetron binding by all four compounds are shown in
        Table 3. Little change in K 
        i value was observed for the majority of
        mutations. The values highlighted in bold in Table
        3represent the K 
        i values for inhibition of [
        3H]granisetron binding on mutant receptors that increased
        over 10 fold compared to the K 
        i obtained for wildtype receptors. The
        bar chart in Figure 2Billustrates the changes in K 
        i resulting from each mutation on the
        test compounds. Ratios of K 
        i are shown as positive for increases in
        K 
        i on mutant receptors versus wildtype
        and negative for decreases. A positive change thus
        corresponds to a decrease in binding affinity for the
        compound as a result of the mutation. Large decreases in
        binding affinity were observed for select compounds only on
        the Y140A, Y142A and Y152A mutations.
        A more detailed analysis of the competition binding data
        obtained for the Y140A, Y142A and Y152A mutations is shown
        in Figure 4. For 5-HT, the Y142A mutation produced a 110
        fold increase in K 
        i and Y152A produced a 24 fold increase.
        No change in K 
        i was observed for the Y140A mutation
        (Figure 4A). The 5-HT 
        3 R agonist 
        m CPBG showed a similar profile for
        the changes in K 
        i values resulting from mutations of the
        three tyrosines (Figure 4B). As was observed for 5-HT, the
        Y142A mutation produced a large increase in K 
        i (160 fold) while the Y14 0A and Y152A
        mutations produced only 7 and 24 fold changes
        respectively.
        The K 
        i value for 
        d -tc inhibition of [ 3H]granisetron
        binding was altered only slightly by the Y142A or Y152A
        mutations (6.5 fold and 10 fold changes respectively). The
        Y140A mutation, however, produced a 50 fold increase in the
        K 
        i compared to wildtype receptors (Figure
        4C).
        The K 
        i value for lerisetron inhibition of [
        3H]granisetron binding was increased 160 fold by the Y142A
        mutation and 190 fold by the Y152A mutation. Only a 4.6
        fold change in K 
        i resulted from the Y140A mutation.
        Lerisetron was the only compound for which a large increase
        in the K 
        i was observed on the Y152A mutation
        (Figure 4D). This mutation produced smaller changes in K 
        i for 5-HT and 
        m CPBG (24 fold for both) and only a
        10 fold change for 
        d -tc.
        In whole cell patch clamp studies, 5-HT perfusion of
        cells transfected with Y140A and Y142A cDNA produced no
        responses at 5-HT concentrations of up to 1 mM although
        specific binding to these receptors was identified in
        receptor binding studies. Unlike Y140A and Y142A, Y152A
        receptors responded to application of 5-HT. Due to the low
        potency of 5-HT on these receptors, only a portion of the
        concentration response curve could be determined (up to 1
        mM). The EC 
        50 value was estimated as greater than
        370 μM (Figure 5). This value shows a greater than 140 fold
        increase in EC 
        50 compared to wildtype receptors; a
        larger change than was observed for the K 
        i (24 fold). The most dramatic change
        observed for whole cell currents was an alteration in the
        kinetics of the response elicited by application of 5-HT.
        Y152A mutant receptors displayed much slower rise times
        compared to wildtype receptors at all concentrations
        tested. Peak wt responses were typically obtained in less
        than 80 ms while Y152A responses required several seconds
        to plateau. Desensitization kinetics were also altered.
        While wt receptors desensitized rapidly, mutant receptors
        showed no desensitization during the 8 s perfusion
        time.
      
      
        Discussion
        The putative E-loop region of the LGIC family of
        receptors is homologous to residues Y140 through K153 in
        the 5-HT 
        3 R [ 4 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 ] .
        Structure-function studies of this region have been
        conducted in several other members of this family of
        receptors including GABA 
        A and nAChR subtypes. In each case,
        residues have been identified that alter either the binding
        of selective ligands or receptor function [ 4 11 12 13 14
        15 16 17 18 ] . In order to determine if this loop also
        contains residues critical to the structure or function of
        the 5-HT 
        3 R, we have constructed alanine
        mutations of amino acids throughout the homologous region
        of the mouse 5-HT 
        3AS R and investigated the affects on
        binding of 5 different structural classes of 5-HT 
        3 R ligands. We have identified three
        tyrosine residues that appear to play a role in binding of
        selective ligands to this receptor. In addition, our data
        support the existence of a loop structure in this region as
        has been hypothesized for the nAChR and identified in a
        homologous AChBP [ 12 23 24 ] .
        Representative members of 5 major structural classes of
        5-HT 
        3 R ligands were tested on all mutants
        (Figure 1). These ligands include the antagonists [
        3H]granisetron, 
        d -tc and lerisetron, and the
        agonists 5-HT and 
        m CPBG. Most of the mutations tested
        produced only minor changes in binding affinity for these
        ligands. Large changes in binding are only apparent on
        Y140A, Y142A and Y152A receptors for select ligands. The
        resulting effects of individual mutations are specific to
        particular structural classes of ligands. The Y140A
        mutation altered the K 
        i for 
        d -tc inhibition, but did not alter
        the K 
        i obtained for any other compound
        tested, while Y142A altered the K 
        i for 
        m CPBG, 5-HT and lerisetron but had
        little if any effect on inhibition by 
        d -tc. These data indicate the highly
        specific nature of the effects introduced by the alanine
        mutations and appear to reflect specific changes in
        ligand/receptor interaction.
        Binding of [ 3H]granisetron is altered only slightly by
        the alanine mutations introduced in this study (<10
        fold). This result indicates the lack of involvement of
        amino acids in this binding loop in the binding of [
        3H]granisetron. It is apparent, however, that [
        3H]granisetron does occupy the same binding cleft as other
        5-HT 
        3 R ligands as evidenced by the ability
        of 5-HT, 
        m CPBG, 
        d -tc and lerisetron to displace it
        from the binding site. The lack of any large change in
        binding of granisetron supports our contention that there
        is little global structural perturbation of the binding
        site resulting from the introduction of each individual
        alanine mutation.
        The K 
        i for inhibition of [ 3H]granisetron
        binding by 5-HT was increased 110 fold by the Y142A
        mutation. A similar increase was also observed for 
        m CPBG (160 fold). In contrast, the
        Y140A and Y152A mutations produced relatively small changes
        in the K 
        i . Since both compounds are 5-HT 
        3 R agonists, they are likely to share
        the same binding interactions. One of these interactions
        appears to be with Y142. Other studies have also identified
        binding site interactions for agonists. R91, E106, F107,
        W183 and several residues adjacent to the M1 region have
        all been demonstrated to alter the action of 5-HT and/or 
        m CPBG [ 20 21 25 26 ] . Within the
        crystal structure of the AChBP, homologous residues are
        located in the apparent binding site [ 24 ] . The effects
        of agonist on the 5-HT 
        3 R are mediated by their interaction
        with these binding site residues, resulting in stable
        receptor conformations, including the channel open state.
        Identification of interacting amino acids and their
        location in the tertiary structure of the receptor may
        provide clues to the mechanism of channel opening. For
        example, amino acids homologous to Y142 and W183 (R104 and
        W143 respectively) are in close proximity in the AChBP,
        although on complementary faces of the receptor subunits [
        24 ] . Spier 
        et. al . have suggested that W183 may
        be involved in a cation-π interaction with the amino group
        of 5-HT and 
        m CPBG [ 26 ] . If W183 and Y142 are
        located near each other but on opposite faces of the
        binding site in the 5-HT 
        3 R, then they could potentially act in
        concert to help stabilize a conformation of the receptor
        leading to channel opening.
        
        d -Tubocurarine inhibition was
        uniquely altered by the Y140A mutation. An increase in K 
        i of 50 fold was observed for 
        d -tc on this mutant. Little if any
        change resulted for any other mutation. Thus, while 
        d -tc may form an interaction with
        the receptor at this binding loop, it appears to interact
        with Y140 rather than Y142 or Y152. This difference in
        binding site interactions of the antagonist 
        d -tc and the agonists 5-HT and 
        m CPBG could be the result of a
        slightly different positioning of 
        d -tc in the binding site. The
        antagonists 
        d -tc and [ 3H]granisetron also
        interact differently with this region since [
        3H]granisetron binding was not altered by mutations at any
        of the amino acids tested. While the binding of 
        d -tc appears to involve some
        interaction with this binding loop, the binding of [
        3H]granisetron does not. Previous studies have indicated a
        point of overlap between [ 3H]granisetron and 
        d -tc at W89 of the 5-HT 
        3AS R. [ 20 ] . These studies indicate
        that the binding regions for these antagonists are
        partially overlapping at W89 but not at Y140. In addition
        to Y140 and W89, 
        d -tc has also been observed to
        interact with D206 and several other residues in loop C [
        27 ] . The 
        d -tc binding site appears to involve
        interaction with at least three different binding loops (A,
        E and C) although additional interacting amino acids may be
        found. Data obtained for 
        d -tc is particularly valuable due to
        the rigid nature of this molecule. Determination of
        interacting functional groups and their relationship to
        individual amino acids could enable 
        d -tc to be used as a molecular ruler
        to determine relative positions of these amino acids.
        Lerisetron inhibition of [ 3H]granisetron binding to
        mutant receptors was also investigated. Lerisetron is a
        potent 5-HT 
        3 R antagonist first synthesized by
        Orales 
        et. al. [ 28 ] . As was observed for
        5-HT 
        3 R agonists, lerisetron binding was
        altered by the Y142A mutation. This mutation produced an
        increase in the K 
        i of 160 fold compared to wildtype
        receptors. This increase in K 
        i indicates an important interaction of
        lerisetron with Y142 and a similarity between the binding
        location of lerisetron, 5-HT and 
        m CPBG. Lerisetron is the only
        antagonist tested that shares a binding site interaction in
        this region with agonists. In contrast to 5-HT and 
        m CPBG, however, lerisetron also
        interacts with Y152 as indicated by the 190 fold increase
        in K 
        i on Y152A mutant receptors. Since
        neither 
        d -tc nor [ 3H]granisetron interacts
        with Y142 or Y152, there appears to be a difference between
        the interactions formed by these antagonists compared to
        lerisetron. The binding sites of the three antagonists
        tested differ with respect to this binding loop. Since the
        role of a competitive antagonist is simply to block the
        binding of agonists and prevent channel opening, the
        specific amino acids that interact with the ligand can vary
        for different antagonists. This is less likely to be the
        case with agonists since they must produce a conformational
        change in the protein to exert their effects.
        Only two mutant receptors failed to bind [
        3H]granisetron; G147A and V149A. G147 is the conserved
        glycine in this putative binding loop. Chirara 
        et. al. have suggested that the
        highly conserved nature of the glycine in this region may
        indicate the existence of a loop structure consisting of
        either γ or a loose three residue-turn in the nAChR [ 12 ]
        . Either of these turns would bring the two putative
        β-strands together such that γL109, γY111 and γS115 and
        γY117 are all on the same side of an antiparallel β-sheet.
        These residues have been identified by affinity labeling,
        site-directed mutagenesis or cysteine substitution to lie
        on the same surface. A classic 2-residue β-turn would place
        these residues on opposite surfaces [ 12 ] . Substitution
        of the conserved glycine by alanine may disrupt the
        structure of this region and prevent assembly or expression
        of the receptor. The recent determination of the crystal
        structure of an AChBP supports this hypothesis. The AChBP
        displays a large amount of homology to the amino terminal
        of LGIC receptors and thus may be similar in structure [ 20
        24 ] . The crystal structure of this protein reveals a
        loose 3 residue turn incorporating the conserved glycine
        residue [ 24 ] . Homologous residues in other LGIC subunits
        have also been identified and are shown in Figure 1. The
        residues identified in this study as altering binding
        affinity of 5-HT 
        3 R ligands would also be present on the
        same surface if this structure is present in the 5-HT 
        3 R. While Y140 lies somewhat outside
        the region identified by Chiara in the nAChR (homologous to
        γN107), γL109 and γL119 are homologous to Y142 and Y152 of
        the 5-HT 
        3AS R. The ability of lerisetron to
        interact with both Y142 and Y152 also supports the
        hypothesis that these two amino acids are present in a loop
        structure since the eight intervening residues would
        position Y142 and Y152 too far apart to permit them both to
        interact with a single ligand even if they were interacting
        with functional groups on opposite ends of the molecule. A
        loop structure would bring them into closer proximity and
        permit interaction with the small molecule lerisetron.
        All three tyrosine mutations were investigated using a
        whole cell patch clamp assay to determine if functional
        changes could be observed. Whole cell responses could not
        be obtained for Y140A or Y142A, although specific binding
        of [ 3H]granisetron was observed. These data suggest that,
        while the receptors do assemble and are capable of binding
        [ 3H]granisetron, they are either not transported to the
        cell surface or are non-responsive to 5-HT at
        concentrations of 1 mM or less.
        Y152A does produce functional channels however they
        display distinctly altered response kinetics when compared
        to wildtype receptors. Y152A responses do not show the
        rapid rise times observed in wt receptors. The extremely
        slow rise times observed for Y152A receptors may indicate a
        change in rate constants preceding channel opening. These
        changes in the rate constants for either agonist binding or
        channel opening also produce a 140 fold decrease in the
        observed EC 
        50 for 5-HT activation. The slow rise is
        followed by a non-desensitizing phase of the response that
        is dramatically different from the fast desensitization
        observed for wt 5-HT 
        3AS Rs. Lack of desensitization could
        result from either a stabilization of the open state of the
        channel or a destabilization of the desensitized state.
        Mutations of homologous or nearby residues in both the
        nAChR and GABA 
        A receptors have also been demonstrated
        to alter the agonist response. Mutation of the homologous
        residue in the GABA 
        A receptor γ-subunit (T142) to serine
        altered the efficacy of the agonist Flumazenil, converting
        it to a partial agonist [ 29 ] . In the nAChR, mutation of
        mouse and rat εP121 to leucine altered both the binding of
        acetylcholine and the stability of the open state of the
        channel. εP121 is homologous to P154 in the 5-HT 
        3 R and is only two residues away from
        Y152. The authors of this study concluded that this portion
        of the acetylcholine binding site was closely linked to the
        channel opening region of the receptor [ 30 ] . It is
        reasonable to conclude that the homologous region in the
        5-HT 
        3 R may perform a similar function. The
        link between an agonist binding domain and a conformational
        change leading to channel opening is not unexpected since
        the two must obviously be linked. If binding to this region
        of the receptor is shown to be a critical step between the
        binding of agonists and the opening of the channel, further
        investigation of the amino acids in this loop may provide
        valuable clues to molecular basis of this process.
      
      
        Conclusions
        Our data indicate an important role for this putative
        binding site loop in the interaction of the 5-HT 
        3 R with different ligands and
        illustrate the difference in binding of different
        structural classes of ligands. Each structural class shows
        different patterns of interaction with amino acids in this
        region of the receptor. [ 3H]granisetron does not appear to
        interact with any of the amino acids tested while 
        d -tc interacts with only Y140, 
        m CPBG and 5-HT with Y142 and
        lerisetron with both Y142 and Y152. Similar selective
        effects have been observed on other residues including
        W183, W89, F107 and E106 among others [ 20 21 25 26 ] . Our
        data in conjunction with those of other laboratories
        indicates the differences in orientation of different
        ligands within the same binding cleft. These differences in
        orientation result in different amino acid/functional group
        interactions. As the structural detail of these
        interactions emerges, these differences could potentially
        be exploited to produce more potent and specific ligands.
        For example construction of a "hybrid" ligand that combines
        the interactions of [ 3H]granisetron with those of 
        d -tc, 5-HT or 
        m CPBG could produce an antagonist
        with increased affinity due to the additional binding
        energy of these interactions and a greater specificity
        since it would utilize more structural features of the
        binding site.
        The requirement of a glycine at position 147 and the
        ability of lerisetron to interact with both Y142 and Y152
        also support the hypothesis that the secondary structure in
        this region of the receptor is formed by a loop structure.
        If the loose 3 residue turn proposed by Chiara 
        et. al. and shown for the AChBP is
        present in the 5-HT 
        3 R, then Y140, Y142 and Y152 would be
        present on the same side of the sheet and all three would
        be capable of extending into the binding site. A similar
        observation has been made for the nAChR where γS111, γY117,
        γL119, δR113 and δT119 of the mouse nAChR receptor and
        γL109 and γY111 of the torpedo nAChR are all thought to be
        present in the binding site [ 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 ] .
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Materials
          [ 3H]granisetron was purchased from New England
          Nuclear, 5-HT from Spectrum, and 
          m CPBG and 
          d -tc from Research Biochemical
          International. Lerisetron was provided by Dr. Karen
          Kirschbaum at The University of Louisiana at Monroe,
          Monroe, LA. All other reagents were obtained from
          commercial sources.
        
        
          Site directed mutagenesis
          Wild type 5-HT 
          3AS mouse receptor cDNA was obtained
          from Dr. Michael White [ 20 ] . Mutant receptors were
          constructed using either the Quick Change Mutagenesis kit
          (Stratagene) or the Altered Sites Mutagenesis kit
          (Promega). All mutations were confirmed by commercial DNA
          sequencing.
        
        
          Cell culture and transfection
          tsA201 cells, a derivative of HEK293 cells, were
          seeded at a density of 5 × 10 6cells/100 mm dish. Cells
          were grown in DMEM medium containing 10% FBS, 100
          units/ml penicillin/streptomycin for nine hours in 5% CO 
          2 and transfected with 10 μg mouse
          5-HT 
          3AS R cDNA per 100 mm dish using the
          calcium phosphate technique (New Life Technologies, NY).
          Media was changed 12-14 hrs after transfection. The cells
          were allowed to grow for another 24 hours and then
          harvested.
          For whole cell patch clamp experiments, tsA201 cells
          were seeded to a density of 0.25 × 10 6cells/60 mm dish.
          Cells were grown in DMEM culture medium containing 10%
          FBS and 100 units/ml penicillin/streptomycin for 12 hours
          prior to transfection. Transfections were performed using
          Superfect Transfection Reagent (Qiagen, CA). Ten μg of
          cDNA were mixed with DMEM medium containing no serum or
          antibiotics in a volume of 150 μl. Twenty μl of Superfect
          reagent were then added and the mixture incubated at room
          temperature for 15 min. The reaction was terminated by
          adding 1 ml of DMEM medium containing 10% FBS and 100
          units/ml penicillin/streptomycin and the entire mixture
          added to cells in the 60 mm dish. Cells were exposed to
          Superfect Reagent for 3 hours. At that time, the reagent
          was replaced with DMEM medium containing 10% FBS and 100
          units/ml penicillin/streptomycin and incubated for an
          additional 24 hours prior to use.
        
        
          Binding assays
          Transfected cells were scraped from the dishes, washed
          twice with Dulbecco's PBS (New Life Technologies, NY),
          then resuspended in 1.0 ml ice cold PBS/100 mm dish.
          Cells were either used fresh or frozen at this step until
          needed. Immediately prior to use, cells were homogenized
          on ice in PBS using a glass tissue homogenizer then
          centrifuged at 35 000 × g for 30 minutes in a Beckman
          JA20 rotor (4°C). Membranes were washed once more with
          PBS at 4°C then resuspended in 1 ml PBS/100 mm dish.
          Protein content was determined using a Lowry assay
          (Sigma. Diagnostics, St. Louis, MO). Membranes were
          initially prepared and B 
          max and K 
          d values determined in the presence
          and absence of a cocktail of protease inhibitors
          (Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail, Roche Diagnostics,
          Mannheim Germany). No change in B 
          max was observed as a result of
          omitting the protease inhibitor (B 
          max (+ protease inhibitor)= 3.1 ± 0.11
          pmoles/mg protein vs B 
          max (- protease inhibitor) = 3.2 ±
          0.13 pmoles/mg protein.) hence all assays were performed
          in the absence of the cocktail. Binding assays were
          performed in PBS.
          For K 
          d determinations, 100 μl of homogenate
          was incubated at 37°C for 1 hour with varying
          concentrations of [ 3H]granisetron (NEN, MA). Specific
          binding of [ 3H]granisetron was determined as the bound [
          3H]granisetron not displaced by a saturating
          concentration of a competing ligand. K 
          d values were determined by fitting
          the binding data to the following equation using Graphpad
          PRISM (San Diego CA): B = B 
          max [L] n/ ([L] n+ K n), where B is
          bound ligand, B 
          max is the maximum binding at
          equilibrium L is the free ligand concentration and n is
          the Hill coefficient.
          K 
          i determinations, 100 μl of homogenate
          was incubated at 37°C for 2 hours with varying
          concentrations of inhibitor and [ 3H]granisetron (NEN,
          MA). Binding was terminated by rapid filtration onto a
          GF/B filters. The IC 
          50 values were calculated by fitting
          the data to the following equation using Graphpad PRISM
          (San Diego CA): θ = 1/ (1+(L/IC 
          50 )), where θ is the fractional
          amount of [ 3H]granisetron bound in the presence of
          inhibitor at concentration L as compared to the amount of
          [ 3H]granisetron bound in the absence of inhibitor. IC 
          50 is the concentration at which θ =
          0.5. The K 
          i is calculated from the IC 
          50 value using the Cheng-Prusoff
          equation.
        
        
          Electrophysiological Recordings
          Transfected cells were transferred to a recording
          chamber containing extracellular solution (140 mM NaCl,
          1.7 mM MgCl 
          2 , 5 mM KCl, 1.8 mM CaCl 
          2 , 25 mM HEPES pH 7.4). Patch
          electrodes of resistance 2.5-3.0 MΩ were filled with
          filtered intracellular solution containing 145 mM KCl, 2
          mM MgCl 
          2 , 1 mM EGTA, 25 mM HEPES (pH 7.4).
          Cells were clamped in whole cell configuration at a
          holding potential of -60 mV. A continuous extracellular
          solution flow (0.8 ml/min) was maintained throughout the
          recording procedure. 5-HT was dissolved in extracellular
          solution and delivered to cells using a rapid perfusion
          system (Warner Instruments, Hamden, CT) at a rate
          matching the extracellular solution flow rate. The drug
          perfusions lasted for a period varying from 4 to 8
          seconds. Currents elicited by agonist application were
          measured using an Axopatch 200 B amplifier (Foster City,
          CA). The data were plotted and analyzed by non-linear
          curve fitting (Graphpad PRISM, San Diego CA) according to
          the following equation: I = 1/(1 +(EC 
          50 / [C]) n), where is the normalized
          current at 5-HT concentration [C], EC 
          50 is the concentration of 5-HT needed
          to obtain half maximal activation and n is the apparent
          Hill coefficient.
        
      
    
  
