
  
    
      
        Background
        Many cloned animals have been created using M II oocytes
        as the recipient cytoplasm (sheep [ 1, 2], cattle [ 3, 4,
        5], mouse [ 6, 7], goat [ 8] and pig [ 9, 10, 11]).
        Maturation/meiosis/mitosis-promoting factor (MPF) activity
        of recipient M II oocytes appears to be important for the
        reprogramming of nuclei of reconstructed embryos. Two
        distinct and different protocols emerge for embryo
        reconstruction by nuclear transfer when using M II oocytes
        as recipients. The first is the transfer of nuclei in G1, S
        or G2 phase into the preactivated recipients after reducing
        MPF activity and the second is the transfer of nuclei in GO
        or G1 phase directly into M II oocytes having high MPF
        activity [ 12]. Recently, it has been shown that when mouse
        embryonic stem cells [ 13] and bovine somatic cells [ 14]
        in the M phase were transferred into non-treated
        recipients, the chromosome constitution of reconstructed
        embryos was normal in that the second polar body was
        excluded after parthenogenetic activation and the embryos
        developed to offspring. The first protocol is effective for
        production of blastomeres derived cloned embryos because
        cell cycle synchronization of embryonic nuclei is difficult
        and the majority of blastomeres are in the S phase at any
        given time [ 15, 16, 17]. In the preactivated oocyte, the
        nuclear membrane of the donor cells remains intact due to
        the low activity of MPF and DNA synthesis occurs according
        to the original cell cycle stage at the time of nuclear
        transfer [ 12] and nuclear reprogramming occurs during the
        expansion of the donor nucleus [ 18, 19]. Additionally,
        nuclei of cells of established embryonic cell lines are
        reprogrammed in preactivated recipient oocytes, porcine
        embryos reconstituted with blastocyst-derived cells and
        preactivated recipients have the ability to develop to
        blastocysts [ 20]. However, there is only one report in
        which cloned animals have been produced from embryos
        reconstructed by transferring differentiated cells into
        preactivated recipient oocytes [ 8] and the ability of
        preactivated recipient oocytes to reprogram differentiated
        cells is now in debate. When bovine somatic cells were
        transferred into preactivated recipient oocytes, the
        resulting reconstructed embryo development was limited,
        since all embryos arrested at the 8-cell stage regardless
        of the cell cycle of the donor cells [ 14]. Because
        embryonic genome activation of bovine embryos occurs
        between the 8- to 16-cell stages [ 21], preactivated
        recipients may not reprogram somatic nuclei. In contrast,
        when nuclei in G0 or G1 phase are transferred into
        non-treated recipients, reconstructed embryos can develop
        to offspring in many species [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10,
        11]. In the M II oocyte, the membrane of the donor nucleus
        is broken down and the chromosomes are prematurely
        condensed due to the high activity of MPF. After
        parthenogenetic activation, the membrane reforms and DNA
        synthesis begins [ 22]. MPF activity during oocyte
        maturation is maximal at both M I and M II [ 12]. Because
        many studies suggest that exposure to high activity of MPF
        is effective for reprogramming a donor nucleus from a
        differentiated cell [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
        14], M I oocytes may reprogram somatic cell nuclei as well.
        In the amphibian, the greatest yield and most advanced
        tadpoles came from differentiated somatic cell nuclei
        injected into M I oocytes [ 23, 24] compared to M II
        oocytes [ 23, 25, 26], although adults could not be
        generated from these reconstructed embryos. However, there
        are no reports that experimentally tested this hypothesis
        in mammals. In the present study, we examined the ability
        of porcine M I oocytes to reprogram somatic cell
        nuclei.
      
      
        Results
        
          Cell Cycle Analysis of Donor Cells
          The cell cycle stages of ear fibroblasts after
          reaching confluence or treatment with nocodazole were
          analyzed using flow cytometry. Analysis of the cell cycle
          stages in confluent cells revealed that 91.2 ± 0.2% of
          the cells were at the G0/G1 phase, 2.5 ± 0.1% were at the
          S phase and 6.4 ± 0.1% were at the G2/M phase. In the
          population of cells collected after nocodazole treatment,
          31.0 ± 3.6% were at the G0/G1 phase, 14.8 ± 3.1% were at
          the S phase and 54.1 ± 4.4% were at the G2/M phase.
          Experiments were repeated 3 times and the data are
          expressed as mean ± SEM.
        
        
          Behaviour before Activation of Donor Cell
          Nuclei
          When confluent cells were transferred into M I
          oocytes, the fusion rate (60.2%) was significantly (P
          < 0.05) higher than that (25.8%) of embryos
          reconstituted with nocodazole-treated cells and M I
          oocytes (Table 1). At 15 h after fusion, spots of
          condensed chromatin (Figure 1Aand 1B) were observed in
          the majority (85.0%) of embryos reconstructed by
          transferring confluent cells and this percentage was
          significantly (P < 0.05) higher than that (63.3%) of
          embryos reconstituted with nocodazole-treated cells. When
          nocodazole-treated cells were transferred into M I
          oocytes, one spot of condensed chromatin and one polar
          body (Figure 1C) was observed in 13.3% of reconstructed
          embryos. Regardless of the cell cycle of the donor cells,
          the percentage (3.3-5.0%) of embryos with swollen nuclei
          (Figure 1Dand 1E) was low.
        
        
          Behaviour after Activation of Donor Cell
          Nuclei
          As shown in Table 2, when confluent cells were used as
          donors, the fusion rate (60.2-62.7%) was significantly (P
          < 0.05) higher than that (29.0-33.6%) of
          nocodazole-treated cells regardless of the maturation
          stage of the recipient oocytes. At 6 h after activation,
          swollen nuclei were observed in 50.0 and 88.9% of embryos
          produced by transferring confluent cells into M I or M II
          oocytes with no significant differences. Although
          34.4-39.5% of embryos reconstituted with
          nocodazole-treated cells had swollen nuclei, the
          percentage of embryos with both the swollen nucleus and
          polar body (Figure 1F) was only 6.3-10.5%.
        
        
          Development of Reconstructed Embryos
          The cleavage rate (38.2%) of embryos reconstituted
          with confluent cells and M II oocytes was significantly
          (P < 0.05) higher than that (5.3-9.7%) of embryos
          produced by transferring confluent or nocodazole-treated
          cells into M I oocytes (Table 3). However, this
          percentage (38.2%) did not significantly differ from that
          of embryos reconstituted with nocodazole-treated cells
          and M II oocytes (15.4%). When embryos reconstituted with
          confluent cells and M I oocytes were cultured, 2 (1.5%)
          blastocysts (Figure 2) were obtained and this percentage
          was significantly (P < 0.05) lower than that of
          embryos produced by transferring confluent cells into M
          II oocytes (7.6%). There were no significant differences
          in mean numbers of cells in the blastocysts between
          different maturation stages of the recipient oocytes. No
          embryos developed to the blastocyst stage when
          nocodazole-treated cells were used as donors regardless
          of the maturation stage of the recipient oocytes.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        The results of the present study demonstrated the in
        vitro developmental ability to blastocysts of porcine
        embryos reconstituted with somatic cells and enucleated M I
        oocytes. To our knowledge, this is the first report that
        describes blastocyst formation of embryos reconstituted
        with M I oocytes in mammals.
        When donor nuclei are transferred into non-treated M II
        recipient oocytes that have high MPF activity, various
        changes referred to as nuclear remodeling occur in the
        introduced nuclei. This phenomenon is considered to involve
        nuclear structural changes, such as nuclear envelope
        breakdown, premature chromosome condensation and pronuclear
        development and swelling [ 27, 28, 29]. Nuclear remodeling
        is thought to be a result of the exchange of proteins
        between the nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments [ 30] and
        is pre-requisite to or is part of the reprogramming of gene
        expression [ 31, 32, 33]. Therefore, it is generally
        considered that the phenomenon of nuclear swelling is one
        essential component of the more complex process of genetic
        reprogramming [ 34]. In the present study, when confluent
        or nocodazole-treated cells were transferred into
        enucleated M I oocytes, nuclear swelling was observed in
        34.4-50.0% of reconstructed embryos after activation. This
        result suggests that porcine M I oocytes can initiate
        reprogramming of both confluent and nocodazole-treated
        cells. Moreover, some reconstructed embryos produced by
        transferring confluent cells developed to the blastocyst
        stage. Because activation of the embryonic genome occurs by
        the 4-cell stage in the pig [ 21], it is evident that donor
        nuclei were at least partially reprogrammed in these
        blastocysts. Therefore, our results clearly indicate that
        porcine M I oocytes like M II oocytes have the ability to
        reprogram confluent somatic cell nuclei as determined by
        nuclear remodeling and in vitro development.
        The blastocyst formation rate of reconstructed embryos
        produced by transferring confluent cells into M I oocytes
        was significantly lower than that of embryos reconstituted
        with confluent cells and M II oocytes although there were
        no significant differences in percentages of embryos with
        swollen nuclei between different maturation stages of
        recipient oocytes. These results suggest that the
        reprogramming of donor nuclei may be started but is not
        completed in some embryos reconstituted with M I oocytes.
        It has been suggested that nuclear swelling may not
        necessarily be a sufficient indicator of developmental
        potential in a reconstructed embryo [ 28]. In addition to
        MPF, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase is also known
        as an important protein kinase that regulates the meiotic
        cell cycle [ 35]. In mouse oocytes, MAP kinase plays a more
        important role in controlling chromatin and microtubule
        behavior than MPF [ 36]. However, MAP kinase and MPF
        activities do not vary between M I and M II of porcine
        oocytes because phosphorylations of MAP kinase and histone
        H1 kinase which corresponds to MPF activity reach the peak
        level at M I and remain high beyond M II [ 37, 38].
        Potentially, an unknown factor(s) is required for
        reprogramming of nuclei, which is present in M II oocytes
        but may not be present or active in M I oocytes. It is
        known that pronuclear exchange between zygotes does not
        prevent development of the reconstructed embryos [ 39] but
        transfer of donor nuclei from later developmental stages
        into enucleated zygotes brings about restricted development
        [ 40, 41]. One explanation of this phenomenon is that a
        factor(s) required for reprogramming of donor nuclei is
        removed with the pronuclei from recipient zygotes.
        Similarly, the factor(s) would be present near the
        chromosomes at M I and removed with the M I plate during
        enucleation in many oocytes. In contrast, the factor(s) is
        believed to be in cytoplasts derived from M II oocytes
        because embryos reconstituted with donor nuclei from later
        developmental stages and enucleated M II oocytes can
        develop to adults [ 42]. An alternative cause is the effect
        of cytochalasin B, a microfilament polymerization
        inhibitor. In the present study, reconstructed embryos
        produced by transferring confluent cells into M I oocytes
        were cultured in the maturation medium supplemented with
        cytochalasin B to prevent loss of chromosomes by polar body
        formation. However, it has been reported recently that
        morphologically normal M I spindles are formed but further
        meiotic progression does not occur in porcine oocytes
        matured in a cytochalasin B-containing medium [ 38].
        Therefore, it is possible that reprogramming of nuclei
        transferred into M I oocytes is inhibited by cytochalasin
        B. Thirdly, M I and M II oocytes may differ in cytoplasmic
        competence. When porcine M I oocytes are inseminated with
        spermatozoa in vitro, the formation rate of male and female
        pronuclei is significantly lower than that in M II oocytes
        [ 43]. Finally, optimal conditions for activation may vary
        between M I and M II oocytes. To our knowledge, there are
        no reports that describe activation of MI oocytes in
        mammals. Parameters of the activation pulse used in the
        present study were also optimized in a preliminary
        experiment using M II oocytes. It is possible that
        optimization of methods for activation improves the
        development of embryos reconstituted with M I oocytes.
        In contrast, no reconstructed embryos developed to the
        blastocyst stage regardless of the maturation stage of the
        recipient oocytes when nocodazole-treated cells were
        transferred, although nuclear swelling was observed in
        34.4-39.5% of the embryos. When cells in M phase are used
        as donors, reconstructed embryos with a polar body are
        diploid but embryos without a polar body are tetraploid [
        14]. In the present study, the percentage of embryos with
        both a swollen nucleus and a polar body was low after
        transfer of nocodazole-treated cells. In the bovine, the
        potential of reconstructed embryos with or without the
        polar body to develop to the blastocyst stage is not
        different [ 14]. However, this study suggests that porcine
        tetraploid embryos may not develop to blastocysts.
        In the present study, there was a significant difference
        in fusion rates between the cell cycles of donor cells. The
        plasma membrane of nocodazole-treated cells was weak
        compared to that of confluent cells and many cells were
        broken before and after applying a fusion pulse. Parameters
        of the fusion pulse were optimized in a preliminary
        experiment using confluent cells. Therefore, it is expected
        that optimal conditions for fusion vary among cell cycles
        of donor cells in the pig.
        In general, in vitro maturation (IVM) media used to
        prepare recipient oocytes for production of cloned embryos
        are usually supplemented with fetal calf serum (FCS) [ 3,
        4, 5, 14] or porcine follicular fluid (pFF) [ 11, 20, 44].
        It is a well known fact that growth factors and hormones,
        in addition to many other factors, are abundant in serum [
        45, 46] and follicular fluid [ 45, 47, 48]. Therefore,
        supplementation of IVM media with FCS or pFF presents the
        potential problems in proper quality control and
        repeatability among laboratories or replicates. Recently, a
        defined IVM system for porcine oocytes was developed in
        order to eliminate such variability [ 49, 50]. In the
        present study, 7.6% of reconstructed embryos produced by
        transferring confluent adult somatic cells into enucleated
        M II oocytes matured in the protein-free medium developed
        to the blastocyst stage. The blastocyst formation rate in
        our study is similar to results from the recent reports in
        which porcine adult somatic (cumulus) cells (5-10%) [ 29,
        51] or fetal fibroblasts (1-16%) [ 11, 29, 51, 52, 53, 54,
        55, 56, 57] were transferred into enucleated M II oocytes
        matured in media supplemented with pFF. In addition,
        quality of the blastocysts based on the mean number of
        cells (45.1 cells) equals if not exceeds results from
        previous studies (cumulus cells: 28.9 cells [ 51]; fetal
        fibroblasts: 12.5-66.0 cells [ 11, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55,
        56]). Although this study did not compare defined IVM
        medium with complex medium the results indicate that
        protein-free IVM medium is suitable for maturing recipient
        oocytes for the production of cloned embryos. The defined
        conditions will allow us to examine factors affecting
        nuclear reprogramming of reconstructed embryos more
        precisely and better understand the basic molecular
        mechanisms of the process.
      
      
        Conclusions
        We have shown that porcine M I oocytes have a potential
        to develop into blastocysts after nuclear transfer of
        somatic cells. However, the process of nuclear
        reprogramming may be different between M I and M II oocytes
        because developmental abilities of reconstructed embryos
        vary between the maturation stages of recipient oocytes.
        Comparison of reprogramming events between M I and M II
        oocytes would bring about important information to
        understand the mechanisms of nuclear reprogramming in
        reconstructed embryos. The use of defined IVM medium will
        be useful for these studies. Taken together, the use of a
        defined medium and optimal reprogramming conditions such as
        the type of donor nuclei and recipient oocyte will lead to
        improvements in porcine cloning outcomes.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Donor Cells
          Porcine fibroblasts were harvested from an ear skin
          biopsy obtained from an adult pig. The tissue was finely
          minced and digested in 0.125% (w/v) trypsin/0.02% (w/v)
          EDTA solution (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO)
          containing 1 mg/ml collagenase (Sigma) and 0.3 mg/ml
          hyaluronidase (Sigma) for 2 h at 37°C. After digestion,
          the mixture was filtered through four layers of sterile
          gauze and cells were pelleted by centrifugation. Cells
          were cultured in DMEM/F-12 medium (Sigma) supplemented
          with 20% (v/v) FCS (Biowhittaker Inc., Walkersville, MD)
          under 5% CO 
          2 in air at 37°C. After reaching
          confluence, cells were passaged. Passage 2 fibroblasts
          were trypsinized, suspended in the culture medium with
          10% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide (Sigma) and stored as frozen
          aliquots. Donor cells were used for nuclear transfer
          between passages 3 and 9 of culture. For preparation of
          donors in G0/G1 phase, the cells were allowed to grow to
          confluency by culturing for 6 days and a single cell
          suspension was prepared by standard trypsinization. The
          cells were used for nuclear transfer within 5 days after
          reaching confluence. After 2-4 days of subculturing, the
          cells (approximately 50% of confluency) were cultured in
          the medium supplemented with 0.3 μg/ml nocodazole
          (Sigma), a microtubule polymerization inhibitor, for 10 h
          to induce G2/M phase arrest. After gentle pipetting,
          cells floating in the medium were collected. Both donor
          cells were prepared immediately prior to nuclear
          transfer.
        
        
          Recipient Oocytes
          Ovaries were collected from a local slaughterhouse and
          transported in 0.9% saline at approximately 32°C.
          Follicles greater than 3 mm in diameter were aspirated
          with an 18-gauge needle using vacuum suction (100 mmHg;
          28 ml/min). Aspirated oocytes that had an evenly
          granulated cytoplasm and were surrounded by at least two
          uniform layers of compact cumulus cells were selected and
          washed three times in Hepes-buffered synthetic oviductal
          fluid medium [ 58]. Oocytes were transferred into tubes
          containing Hepes-buffered TCM-199 (Gibco BRL, Grand
          Island, NY) supplemented with 0.57 mM cysteine, 10 ng/ml
          epidermal growth factor (Sigma), 100 IU/ml penicillin,
          100 μg/ml streptomycin, 0.25 ng/ml amphotericin, 0.01
          IU/ml porcine FSH (Sioux Biochemicals, Sioux Center, IA),
          0.01 IU/ml porcine LH (Sioux Biochemicals) and 0.1% (w:v)
          polyvinyl alcohol (maturation medium) [ 50], and shipped
          to the laboratory overnight (20-24 h) at 38.5°C. Oocytes
          continued to be cultured in the tubes under 38.5°C until
          enucleation.
        
        
          Nuclear Transfer
          Reconstructed embryos were produced using a
          modification of the method described by Miyoshi et al. [
          44]. Cumulus cells were removed by vortexing with 0.1%
          (w:v) hyaluronidase and denuded oocytes were transferred
          into 100 μl of Hepes-buffered TCM-199 supplemented with
          7.5 μg/ml cytochalasin B (Sigma) and 10% FCS with the
          osmolarity adjusted to 300 mOsm by adding sorbitol
          (manipulation medium) at 29 or 42 h after IVM. The M I
          plate or the first polar body and M II plate were removed
          by aspiration with a 15-μm inner diameter glass pipette.
          The oocytes had been previously stained in the
          manipulation medium supplemented with 5 μg/ml Hoechst
          33342 (Sigma) for 20 min and confirmation of successful
          enucleation was achieved by visualizing the cytoplast and
          removed cytoplasm under ultraviolet light. After
          enucleation, a donor cell was inserted into the
          perivitelline space of each enucleated oocyte using the
          same glass pipette. When nocodazole-treated cells were
          used as donors, large cells (cell diameter was >15 μm)
          were selected. In our preliminary experiment, such a
          relatively large cytoplasmic volume was typical of cells
          at the G2/M phase as described by Wakayama et al. [ 13].
          Cell-oocyte complexes were washed in TCM-199 supplemented
          with 10% FCS, transferred to the same medium and kept
          under 5% CO 
          2 in air at 38.5°C until fusion.
          Fusion was performed in a 100 mm dish filled with 15
          ml of Zimmermann fusion medium [ 59]. Two stainless steel
          wires (100 μm diameter) attached to micromanipulators
          were used as electrodes. The single cell-oocyte complex
          was sandwiched between the electrodes and oriented with
          the contact surface between the cytoplast and the donor
          cell perpendicular to the electrodes. The distance
          between the electrodes was about 100 μm. Membrane fusion
          was induced by applying a single direct current pulse of
          250 V/mm for a duration of 20 μsec with a prepulse of
          alternating current field of 5 V, 1 MHz for 2 sec using
          an LF 101 Fusion Machine (TR Tech Co., Tokyo, Japan).
          Following fusion, the complexes were washed in G 1.2
          medium [ 60] and cultured for a period of 1 h in 100 μl
          of the same medium. Fusion rate was then determined by
          microscopic examination.
        
        
          Activation of Reconstructed Embryos
          Fused embryos were washed once in Zimmermann fusion
          medium and then placed between 2 wire electrodes (1 mm
          apart) of the fusion chamber slide with 15 ml of the
          fusion medium. Direct current pulses of 75 V/mm were
          applied twice to the embryos for a duration of 60 μsec at
          intervals of 5 sec.
        
        
          Examination of Reconstructed Embryos
          Before and after activation, fused embryos were
          stained with 5 μg/ml Hoechst 33342 for 20 min and then
          examined for nuclear swelling and polar body formation
          under ultraviolet light. The nucleus with a diameter that
          was at least twice bigger than the original size of donor
          cell nuclei was considered to be a swollen nucleus.
        
        
          Experimental Studies
          
            Cell Cycle Analysis of Donor Cells
            In Experiment 1, the cell cycle stages of confluent
            and nocodazole-treated donor cells were analyzed using
            flow cytometry. Collected cells (approx. 2 × 10 6cells)
            were centrifuged and the pellet was re-suspended in 1
            ml of cold PBS. Then, cells were fixed by adding 4 ml
            of -20°C absolute ethanol and stored in -20°C. Before
            analysis, cells were centrifuged and the pellet was
            re-suspended in 1 ml of PBS. Then, 100 μl of DNase-free
            RNase A (200 μg/ml; Sigma) was added and samples were
            incubated for 30 min at 37°C. After incubation, 100 μl
            of propidium iodide (1 mg/ml; Sigma) was added into
            each sample and cells were analyzed using FACStartPLUS
            analyzer (Becton Dickinson, San Jose, CA).
          
          
            Behavior before Activation of Donor Cell
            Nuclei
            In Experiment 2, we examined the behavior before
            activation of donor cell nuclei transferred into
            enucleated M I oocytes. M I oocytes were enucleated at
            29 h after IVM and confluent or nocodazole-treated
            cells were transferred. Fused embryos were cultured in
            the maturation medium for 15 h and then examined for
            nuclear swelling and polar body formation. When
            confluent cells were used as donors, fused embryos were
            cultured in the medium supplemented with 7.5 μg/ml
            cytochalasin B to prevent extrusion of polar
            bodies.
          
          
            Behavior after Activation of Donor Cell
            Nuclei
            In Experiment 3, the behavior of nuclei of confluent
            or nocodazole-treated cells transferred into enucleated
            M I or M II oocytes was examined after activation.
            Embryos reconstituted with M I oocytes were cultured in
            the maturation medium with or without cytochalasin B
            for 15 h and then activated. M II oocytes were
            enucleated at 42 h after IVM and embryos reconstituted
            with them were activated at 3 h after fusion. Activated
            embryos were cultured in 100 μl of G 1.2 medium for 6 h
            and then examined for nuclear swelling and polar body
            formation. When confluent cells were used as donors,
            embryos were cultured in G1.2 medium supplemented with
            7.5 μg/ml cytochalasin B for 2 h after activation to
            prevent extrusion of polar bodies [ 44].
          
          
            Development of Reconstructed Embryos
            Experiment 4 was undertaken to compare in vitro
            developmental abilities of reconstructed embryos
            produced by transferring confluent or
            nocodazole-treated cells into enucleated M I or M II
            oocytes as described above. After culture in G1.2
            medium for 3 days, the embryos were transferred into
            100 μl of G2.2 medium [ 60] and continued to be
            cultured. The embryos were examined for cleavage and
            blastocyst formation at 2 and 7 days after culture,
            respectively. At the end of the culture period, the
            number of cells in blastocysts was examined. The
            blastocysts were placed on slides with a drop of
            mounting medium consisting of glycerol and PBS (9:1)
            containing 0.1 mg/ml Hoechst 33342. A cover slip was
            placed on the top of the blastocysts and the edge was
            sealed with fingernail polish. The numbers of nuclei
            were counted under ultraviolet light.
          
        
        
          Statistical Analysis
          All percentage data were subjected to an arcsin square
          root transformation in each replicate and the transformed
          values were analyzed using one-way (Experiment 2) or
          two-way (Experiments 3 and 4) ANOVA followed by
          Student-Newman-Keuls test. The numbers of cells in
          blastocysts were analyzed using Student t-test. A
          probability of P < 0.05 was considered statistically
          significant.
        
      
    
  
