
  
    
      
        Background
        Affymetrix microarrays are used by many laboratories to
        study differences in gene expression associated with
        experimental treatments, diseases, development, aging, and
        other conditions. Typically, an arbitrary value for
        expression ratios (or fold-change values) is chosen to
        define significant differences in gene expression between
        conditions. For example, in several studies of aging [ 1 2
        3 4 5 6 ] , only differences > 1.7-fold in magnitude
        were considered to be significant. None of the reports
        indicated whether there were smaller effects that were
        statistically significant. It has been pointed out that
        statistically significant differences in gene expression
        often are of small magnitude (sometimes as low as
        1.2-fold), and that larger effects often are artefacts of
        high variance [ 7 8 ] . For those interested in detecting
        these smaller effects, it is important to minimize
        nonspecific sources of inter-array variance.
        To understand the approach described in this report, it
        is necessary to understand the design of Affymetrix
        microarrays and analysis software (Microarray Suite). There
        are multiple probe pairs for each mRNA (8-20 for the arrays
        used in the present study). A probe pair consists of a 25
        base oligonucleotide that matches an mRNA sequence (perfect
        match, or PM probe) and an oligonucleotide with a
        mismatched base in the center (MM probe). The specific
        hybridization signal for each probe pair is the difference
        between the PM intensity and the MM intensity (although the
        latest version of Affymetrix Microarray Suite, 5.0, has
        special rules for handling MM probes that have higher
        signals than their PM partner). No single hybridization
        condition is optimal for all oligonucleotide probes, so it
        is inevitable that there is variability among the signals
        within a probe set. The expression level reported for each
        probe set (by the Affymetrix "absolute analysis" algorithm)
        is based on a weighted average of the signals from the
        individual probe pairs, with signals near the median given
        more weight than those far from the median. We refer to
        this as the signal method in this report. The weights
        assigned to each probe pair can vary from one array to
        another, but it is unclear whether variable weighting adds
        significantly to inter-array variance. Microarray Suite
        also has a procedure ("comparative analysis" algorithm) for
        comparing two arrays at the level of individual probe
        pairs. With this algorithm, ratios of signals (PM-MM for
        each probe pair) from one array to those of the other array
        are computed first. Weighted averages of these ratios are
        then computed. We refer to this as the ratio method. This
        method is supposed to be more precise than the signal
        method for inter-array comparisons. Thus, many
        investigators use this algorithm for all possible
        one-to-one comparisons across groups (e.g., 9 comparisons
        for 3 arrays per group) and report the average of the
        ratios as the change in gene expression [ 1 2 3 4 5 9 ] . A
        problem with this approach is that there is no absolute or
        relative expression level assigned to each mRNA on
        individual arrays, so that formal statistical approaches
        (e.g., t-tests) cannot be used to rate the statistical
        significance of differences. In this report, we describe
        how we circumvented this problem by using the ratio method
        to generate a composite gene expression score for each mRNA
        on each array.
        The procedure used to estimate the statistical
        significance of differences determines which genes, and how
        many genes, are defined as being differentially expressed.
        For a comparison between two groups, the t-test is the most
        commonly used procedure in biological research. However,
        with 6 arrays per group, even a single outlier can markedly
        reduce the value of t even when there is no overlap between
        groups. Therefore, we also used the nonparametric rank sum
        test, which is insensitive to a skewed distribution. False
        detection rates were estimated with the Significance
        Analysis of Microarrays (SAM) program [ 8 ] .
      
      
        Results
        
          Normalization method
          Comparisons among arrays are meaningful only after
          accounting for variability in overall target
          concentration ("target" is the Affymetrix nomenclature
          for a labeled cRNA that hybridizes with a probe),
          hybridization efficiency, staining, etc. The
          normalization procedure recommended by Affymetrix is to
          multiply raw signals by a scaling factor such that the
          trimmed mean (excluding 2% highest and 2% lowest) of
          signals is always the same (500 in this study). This
          procedure could be problematic if a variable proportion
          (>2%) of the signals are beyond the linear range of
          the system. Another concern about the normalization
          procedure was that the majority of the targets did not
          produce signals that were significantly greater than
          those caused by nonspecific hybridization. After the
          recommended normalization procedure was applied, we
          confirmed that there was negligible inter-array
          variability of the mean signal (with 5% of signals
          trimmed from both the high and low ends) across the 4629
          targets that passed the presence / absence filter
          (described in the next section). The trimmed mean was 649
          ± 14 (standard deviation) arbitrary units for the 6
          arrays probing RNA from young muscle, and 643 ± 18 for
          the 6 arrays probing RNA from older muscle. These data
          were not used to re-scale the arrays because the variance
          would have been reduced by less than 2%. Plots of signals
          from individual arrays versus the average of all 12
          arrays generally showed the expected scatter around the
          line of identity (Figure 1A), but a few showed systematic
          deviations either above or below the line of identity for
          signals > ~10 4arbitrary units (worst-case array shown
          in Figure 1B). While this problem might be addressed by
          using a different scaling factor for high-intensity
          signals [ 10 ] , few targets produced such high signals,
          and the magnitude of the effect was small. Thus, the
          Affymetrix normalization method was employed without
          modification.
        
        
          Exclusion of targets based on the absolute
          detection algorithm
          Microarray Suite estimates probabilities that targets
          are absent (P 
          detection ) based on ratios of signals
          from PM probes to those of MM probes, together with the
          degree of consistency across the multiple probe pairs for
          each target. As illustrated in Figure 2, the average
          signal from the multiple probe pairs cannot be used to
          decide whether a target should be considered present or
          absent. We restricted the data analyses to targets for
          which P 
          detection was less than 0.1 for at
          least 3 of the 6 samples from either the younger or older
          group. This filter reduced the number of targets included
          in the statistical analyses to 4629. While excluding data
          does not affect the nominal value of P for each
          comparison made with a t-test or rank sum test, it
          significantly reduces the estimated false detection rate
          (see 
          t-Tests and 
          SAM below).
        
        
          Signal method vs. ratio method
          When two arrays are compared, the gene expression
          ratios obtained by the signal method and those obtained
          by the ratio method (see 
          Background for explanation of terms)
          are highly correlated. However, the results often differ
          by more than 1.5-fold (Figure 3). The advantage of the
          signal method is that Microarray Suite provides, for each
          target, a number describing the level of gene expression
          (in arbitrary units) that can be used for t-tests or
          other statistical procedures. However, according to
          Affymetrix (Microarray Suite 5.0 User's Guide),
          comparisons between arrays are more precise when the
          ratio method is used, so the values on the horizontal
          axis of Figure 3should be more accurate. The Affymetrix
          ratio method only provides ratios between two arrays, and
          does not provide gene expression values for the
          individual arrays that can be used with standard tests of
          statistical significance. We therefore extended the ratio
          method to generate a relative expression score for each
          target on each array, as follows:
          The first step was to name one of the arrays as the
          baseline in the comparative analysis program (Microarray
          Suite 5.0). Every other array included in the study was
          then compared with that baseline array. This procedure
          yielded, for each target, a set of 11 expression ratios (
          
          r ) representing the relative
          expression level on each array compared with the baseline
          array.
          The next step was to compute, for each target, the
          expression level ( 
          R ) of the baseline array relative
          to all 12 arrays included in the study. For array #1, 
          R was computed with the
          formula:
          
          R 
          1 = 12/(1 + 
          r 
          2 vs. 1 + 
          r 
          3 vs. 1 + ... + 
          r 
          12 vs. 1 )
          The value of 1 in the denominator of this formula
          represents the comparison of array #1 with itself. The
          number of arrays is the numerator rather than the
          denominator in this formula because the Affymetrix
          comparative analysis program sets the baseline array as
          the denominator, so that values of 
          r are the inverse of the relevant
          ratios.
          A different array was then named as the baseline.
          E.g., for array #2 as the baseline:
          
          R 
          2 = 12/( 
          r 
          1 vs. 2 + 1 + 
          r 
          3 vs. 2 + ... + 
          r 
          12 vs. 2 )
          These steps were repeated until all 12 arrays had been
          named as the baseline. The values R 
          1 through R 
          12 were then used for comparisons
          between age groups with t-tests, rank sum tests, and SAM
          as described below.
          For the 4629 probe sets that passed the presence /
          absence filter, the expression ratios (mean value in old
          group / mean value in young group) generated by the
          signal method and those generated by the ratio method
          were highly correlated (r = 0.89). There also was a
          fairly good correlation between the signal and ratio
          methods with respect to the level of statistical
          significance (log P) of the age-related differences (r =
          0.74). The advantage of the ratio method was that it
          usually reduced the within-group variance so that the
          same mean difference between young and old was associated
          with a higher level of statistical significance. The
          average within-group coefficient of variation (CV,
          standard deviation / mean) was 20% with the ratio method
          and 25% with the signal method (average CVs were the same
          for young and old groups). The distribution of CVs
          improved significantly with the ratio method (Figure 4).
          Table 1shows that more differences were detected by the
          ratio method whether we used t-tests, rank sum tests, or
          SAM to define significant differences. Moreover,
          consistency between the initial scan and the
          antibody-enhanced scan was significantly improved by the
          ratio method, for both expression ratios and for the
          statistical significance of differences between young and
          old (Table 2). With the signal method, 38% of the
          differences significant at P < 0.01 (by t-test) on the
          initial scan were also significant at P < 0.01 on the
          antibody-enhanced scan, and 65% were significant at P
          < 0.05 on the antibody enhanced scan. With the ratio
          method, 51% of the differences significant at P < 0.01
          on the initial scan were also significant at P < 0.01
          on the antibody-enhanced scan, and 77% were significant
          at P < 0.05 on the antibody enhanced scan.
        
        
          t-Tests
          A plot of expression ratio vs. statistical
          significance (Figure 5) shows that differences with high
          statistical significance (by t-test) usually were less
          than 1.7-fold in magnitude. The validity of at least some
          of the small differences is demonstrated by the fact that
          ~1.3-fold differences were detected (P < 0.01) for 17
          genes encoding proteins involved in mitochondrial
          electron transport or ATP synthesis (Table 3). This
          finding replicates our previous research, in which SAGE
          and quantitative RT-PCR assays demonstrated ~1.3-fold
          declines in older muscle of several mRNAs encoding
          components of NADH dehydrogenase, cytochrome c oxidase,
          and ATP synthase complexes [ 11 ] . For all of these
          mRNAs, both the signal and ratio methods detected the
          differences at P < 0.03, whereas the ratio method was
          a bit more likely to detect them at P < 0.01 (14/17
          genes) than was the signal method (12/17 genes, Table
          3).
          The P values generated by the t-tests were not
          adjusted for multiple comparisons. However, a Bonferroni
          correction would be too stringent for exploratory
          research [ 12 ] . A useful alternative to P in studies
          involving thousands of comparisons is the estimated false
          detection rate, which is the ratio of the expected number
          of chance differences (P × number of comparisons) to the
          number of differences observed. If we use P < 0.01 to
          define a significant difference, we should expect ~46
          chance differences (0.01 × 4629 comparisons) if there is
          no effect of aging on gene expression. Because 124
          differences were significant at P < 0.01 (by the ratio
          method), the estimated false detection rate was 46/124,
          or 37%. When no presence / absence filter was applied
          (12533 probe sets included in the analysis), the
          estimated false detection rate (ratio method) increased
          from 37% to 73% because there were fewer differences (at
          P < 0.01) among the "absent" mRNAs than expected by
          chance (48 observed vs. 79 expected by chance).
        
        
          Mann-Whitney rank sum tests
          The Mann-Whitney rank sum test was used to detect
          transcripts for which there was little or no overlap of
          values between groups. This test revealed 107 differences
          at P < 0.01 (exact P = 0.00866 at rank sum cutoff
          values) when the ratio method was used. We would expect
          to find 40 differences by chance alone (0.00866 × 4629
          genes), so the false detection rate (40/107 = 37%) is the
          same as that estimated from t-tests. There were 21
          differences significant at P < 0.01 by rank sum tests
          but not by t-tests according to the ratio method. Thus,
          for exploratory research being done to generate lists of
          mRNAs that warrant further study, use of both parametric
          and nonparametric tests is one way to significantly
          expand the list.
        
        
          SAM
          SAM computes a value, termed d [d = (mean 
          1 - mean 
          2 )/(s 
          d + s 
          0 )], that is similar to t [t = (mean 
          1 - mean 
          2 )/s 
          d ]. The "exchangeability factor", s 
          0 , minimizes the number of extreme d
          values among targets with small variances in signal
          intensity. When absolute signals are analyzed, these
          small variances are associated with targets that are more
          difficult to quantify accurately because of low
          concentrations. We already have filtered most of these
          targets from the analysis. When data based on the signal
          method were analyzed, s 
          0 was very small (lowest percentile of
          the s 
          d values). When relative expression
          levels were computed by the ratio method, all means were
          close to 1 regardless of the absolute signal intensity.
          In this case, s 
          0 was large (53rd percentile of the s 
          d values), and lower s 
          d values were associated with stronger
          rather than weaker signals. This problem precluded the
          use of SAM for data normalized in this fashion. However,
          by multiplying each value of 
          R by the gene-specific mean signal
          (mean of all 12 arrays), we generated a data set
          compatible with SAM.
          SAM lists genes for which d exceeds (by an adjustable
          threshold termed Δ) the value that would be expected by
          chance (d 
          e ). Values of d 
          e are generated by computing the d
          distribution numerous times with random permutations of
          the group assignments (we instructed SAM to perform 100
          permutations). The average distribution from these
          permutations defines the values of d 
          e . Reducing Δ expands the list of
          "significant" genes, but also increases the false
          detection rate. When we chose a value of Δ corresponding
          to a false detection rate < 20%, there were 124
          differences according to the ratio method but only 56
          differences according to the signal method. There were 20
          differences for which the false detection rate was <
          5% when the ratio method was used (including 9 for genes
          involved in energy metabolism that are listed in Table
          3), but none when the signal method was used. When no
          presence / absence filter was applied, the highest-ranked
          differences had false detection rates of 30% even with
          the ratio method, and only 34 genes achieved this level.
          Thus, it is very important to remove noisy data before
          using SAM.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        Careful subject selection and consistency in
        experimental conditions, sample collection procedures, and
        sample processing obviously are needed if small differences
        in gene expression are to be detected. A further reduction
        in total within-group variance can be achieved by using the
        ratio method described in this report. This method is based
        on the Affymetrix comparative analysis algorithm, which was
        designed for comparisons between two arrays. To use the
        procedure for groups rather than individual arrays, we
        assigned each target on each array a score that was the
        average ratio from all one-to-one comparisons of that array
        with every array included in the study. The best
        illustration of the increase in power gained by the ratio
        method was the fact that that 20 differences were below the
        5% false detection rate (by SAM) when this method was used,
        whereas no differences below the 5% false detection rate
        were found when the signal method was used. The major
        drawback of the ratio method is increased computational
        time.
        It has been suggested that inter-array variance can be
        reduced by ignoring data from MM probes, or by using an
        alternative computation to take advantage of the MM data [
        13 14 15 16 ] . In previous versions of Microarray Suite,
        MM signals were always subtracted from PM signals, which
        often led to negative expression levels. The newer version
        (5.0), used in this study, has a different procedure for
        dealing with high signals from MM probes. It is not clear
        whether alternative algorithms for using the MM signals, or
        ignoring MM signals, would improve the accuracy of the
        data. We therefore used the Affymetrix algorithm, which is
        likely to be used by most investigators until there is
        definitive evidence that alternative methods are
        superior.
        There is no consensus about the optimal statistical
        approach for finding differences in expression among
        thousands of genes. When a specific hypothesis is being
        tested, "shopping" for the best statistical test to support
        the hypothesis should be avoided. In contrast, when the
        goal is to generate descriptive information to guide
        decisions about future research directions, there is no
        reason not to use multiple approaches to obtain as much
        information as possible. For a comparison of two groups,
        the t-test is simple and robust, and does not require
        special software. Some investigators may be wary about
        using t-tests rather than mean differences to rank genes
        because one or two extreme values can reduce t even when
        there is no overlap between groups. The rank sum test can
        be used to detect such effects. Log transformation of the
        data also can minimize the impact of outliers with high
        signals. However, log transformation reduces t when the
        outliers are close to zero. It has been suggested that this
        feature of the log transformation is advantageous because
        it can exclude effects that are artefacts of noisy data at
        low expression levels [ 17 ] . We prefer to filter noisy
        data by using the P 
        detection algorithm.
        SAM [ 8 ] is an alternative to t-tests or rank sum
        tests. The false detection rates computed by SAM were
        markedly increased when we did not apply our presence /
        absence filter. When the filter was used, SAM generated a
        lower estimate of the number of false differences than
        estimates based on multiplying P(t) or P(rank sum) by the
        number of comparisons. Perhaps this observation can be
        explained by the fact that expression levels of many genes
        are correlated with expression levels of many others. The
        number of random differences to be expected among thousands
        of comparisons with t-tests or rank sum tests is based on
        the assumption that comparisons are independent of one
        another. SAM computes the false detection rate with a
        method that does not rely on this assumption.
        Some of the arrays included in this study (n = 4) probed
        RNA pooled from multiple subjects, whereas others (n = 8)
        probed RNA from individual subjects. The heterogeneous
        nature of the samples conceivably could influence the
        statistical properties of this data set. However, there was
        good uniformity among arrays in terms of scaling factors
        and percentages of probe sets with P 
        detection < 0.1, and both age groups
        were comprised of 2 pools and 4 individual samples, which
        should minimize the influence of using both pooled and
        individual samples (see Additional file 1). After the data
        analyses described in this report were completed, we
        reanalyzed the individual samples along with 8 new
        individual samples (total of 8 individual samples per age
        group) using U133A and U133B arrays, which have ~44000
        probe sets with 11 probe pairs per set. The reduction of
        within-group variance by the ratio method was replicated
        (Table 4), demonstrating that it is not unique to U95A
        arrays, and is not an artefact of including both pooled and
        individual samples. We cannot guarantee that the same
        reduction in variance will occur in all cases. If variance
        caused by biological heterogeneity or by inconsistent
        laboratory procedures is very high, then the difference
        between the signal and ratio methods might be trivial in
        relation to overall variance. The proposed computational
        method appears to reduce the inflation of variance caused
        by variable weighting of individual probes within a set,
        but cannot compensate for variance from other sources.
        Additional Files
        Source of RNA, scaling factors, and percentage of probe
        sets with Pdetection < 0.1 for 12 arrays included in
        this study
        Click here for file
        The data generated in this study have been deposited in
        the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO, accession numbers
        GSM2390 through GSM2401, Series accession number GSE80)
        http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/and the AMDeC Microarray
        Resource Center Gene Expression Database www.amdec.org.
        Both the signal data and the ratio data have been
        deposited. The Affymetrix files (*.exp, *.dat, *.cel,
        *.chp) can be obtained from the corresponding author.
      
      
        Conclusions
        The ratio method reduces inter-array variance and
        thereby enhances statistical power. SAM is very sensitive
        to noisy data, which should be removed a priori.
      
      
        Methods
        
          Subjects
          The subjects were 16 young (21-31 yr) and 19 older men
          (62-77 yr). All had normal neuromuscular function and
          were healthy according to history, physical examination,
          and laboratory tests. None of them was involved in any
          type of regular exercise program involving strenuous
          activity. All subjects gave written consent after the
          procedures and risks were explained. The research was
          approved by the University of Rochester Research Subjects
          Review Board.
        
        
          Procedures
          Subjects were asked to refrain from any activity more
          strenuous than walking for 3 days before the muscle
          biopsy. Each subject stayed at the University of
          Rochester General Clinical Research Center the night
          before the biopsy to minimize variability between
          subjects in the amount of activity performed on the day
          of the biopsy. The needle biopsy was obtained from the
          vastus lateralis. The skin and muscle were anesthetized
          with lidocaine a few minutes before tissue removal. The
          muscle sample was frozen in liquid nitrogen within 30
          seconds of removal, then stored at -70°C until
          analysis.
        
        
          Analysis of gene expression by high density
          oligonucleotide arrays
          RNA was extracted from the muscle samples as described
          previously [ 11 ] . All RNA samples were of high quality
          as indicated by the pattern of staining with ethidium
          bromide in an agarose gel after electrophoretic
          separation. RNA was probed with Affymetrix HG-U95A high
          density oligonucleotide arrays, which have ~12500 probe
          sets. Twelve arrays were examined: four (two for each age
          group) that probed RNA pooled from 4-8 subjects and eight
          (four for each age group) that probed RNA from a single
          subject. Pooling of RNA was necessary in some cases
          because most of the RNA from some samples had been used
          for other purposes. Additional file 1shows the source of
          RNA, scaling factors, and percentage of transcripts
          present (P 
          detection < 0.1) for each
          array.
          Analytical procedures were carried out using standard
          operating procedures developed and validated by the
          University of Rochester Microarray Core Facility. After
          hybridization and washing, arrays were stained with
          phycoerythrin-streptavidin, which binds to the
          biotinylated cRNAs hybridized with the probes. The
          initial scan detected the fluorescence of the
          phycoerythrin-streptavidin. The analyses described in
          this report are based on data from this initial scan.
          After the initial scan, signals were amplified by
          staining the array with biotin-labeled anti-streptavidin
          antibody followed by phycoerythrin-streptavidin. Analyses
          of the antibody-enhanced scans are not presented, except
          for correlations with the initial scans, since the same
          statistical issues are relevant to both scans. These
          scans supported the results discussed above. Data from
          both scans were deposited in the GEO and AMDeC
          databases.
        
        
          Software
          The statistical algorithms of Microarray Suite 5.0
          were used with the default parameters to generate
          signals, ratios of signals between two arrays, and P 
          detection values. Data generated by
          Microarray Suite were exported to Microsoft Excel for
          further analysis. SAM runs within Excel.
        
      
      
        Authors' contributions
        SW was responsible for data analyses and was the
        principal author. AIB was responsible for generating
        microarray data, and contributed to writing the manuscript.
        CAT was responsible for obtaining the muscle samples, and
        contributed to writing the manuscript. All authors read and
        approved the final manuscript.
      
    
  
