
  
    
      
        Background
        Specification of cells at different times and places is
        critical for generation of cellular diversity in the
        vertebrate nervous system. Distinct types of neurons and
        glia develop at characteristic times and places [ 1] and
        molecular signals that promote formation of different cell
        types are regulated spatially and temporally [ 2]. Thus,
        neural pattern formation requires coordination of signals
        that provide spatial and temporal information.
        Lateral inhibition, or lateral specification, is one
        process by which fine patterns of distinct cell types are
        generated [ 3, 4]. Among cells that have the potential to
        adopt the same fate, lateral inhibition specifies some
        cells for a primary or preferred fate and others for a
        secondary or alternative fate. Cell ablation experiments
        are used to identify lateral inhibition: when cells that
        would normally adopt a primary fate are removed, cells that
        would otherwise acquire a secondary fate replace them. For
        example, when neuroblasts of the grasshopper central
        nervous system were ablated, they were replaced by cells
        normally fated to give rise to epidermis [ 5]. Similar
        demonstrations performed in other insects [ 6], leeches [
        7], nematodes [ 8], ascidians [ 9], and zebrafish neural
        crest [ 10] indicate that lateral inhibition operates in
        diverse developmental contexts throughout metazoan
        development.
        The molecular mechanism of lateral inhibition is rooted
        in interaction of the ligand, Delta, and its receptor,
        Notch [ 11]. Various lines of evidence indicate that Delta,
        expressed by specified cells, activates Notch in
        neighboring cells directing them into alternative
        developmental pathways. The genetic demonstration that
        Delta-Notch signaling regulates insect neuroblast formation
        has been performed using 
        Drosophila melanogaster : embryos
        lacking Delta or Notch function develop excess neural cells
        at the expense of epidermis [ 12].
        In the nervous system of vertebrate embryos, 
        Notch gene expression generally is
        associated with proliferative zones of undifferentiated
        cells [ 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21]. Scattered
        cells within proliferative zones express 
        Delta [ 18, 20, 22, 23, 24],
        although, in chick, cells in S-phase of the cell cycle do
        not express 
        Delta1 suggesting that expression is
        limited to newly post-mitotic cells [ 18, 20, 23]. In frog
        and zebrafish neural plate, 
        Delta gene expression appears to
        precede expression of early neuronal markers [ 25, 26, 27,
        28]. However, whether this indicates that proliferative
        cells of anamniote nervous systems express 
        Delta genes is still an open
        question.
        Newly-specified neurons may use Delta to signal to
        unspecified neighboring precursor cells via Notch. Such
        signaling could diversify neural cell fate by maintaining a
        pool of precursor cells that respond to other instructive
        signals or by promoting alternative developmental pathways.
        Gain-of-function experiments provide evidence for both
        ideas. For example, overexpression of a constitutively
        active form of Notch (Nac) in frog embryos led to an
        increase in the amount of neural tissue, even when cell
        division was blocked [ 29]. It was suggested that this
        excess neural tissue arose from specification of excess
        uncommitted precursor cells to a neural fate once levels of
        the overexpressed Notch protein fell. Frog retinal cells
        forced to express Nac maintained a neuroepithelial
        morphology rather than undergoing differentiation, which
        also suggests that Notch activation maintains cells in an
        undifferentiated state [ 16]. Similarly, overexpression of
        Delta proteins, which presumably activate endogenous Notch
        signaling, prevented retinal cell differentiation in frog
        and chick [ 20, 24] and formation of the earliest-born
        neurons in frog and zebrafish [ 25, 26, 27, 28]. Each of
        these observations is consistent with the notion that Notch
        activity maintains cells in a proliferative, unspecified
        state.
        More recently, several reports have raised the
        possibility that Notch activity promotes specification of
        certain cell types, particularly glial cells. Forced
        expression of Nac promoted formation of cells expressing
        markers of Müller glia in rat and zebrafish retinae [ 30,
        31]. As Müller glia are among the last retinal cell types
        born, these results are consistent with the idea that Notch
        activity delays differentiation. However, Notch activity
        did not promote expression of markers of other late-born
        cell types in rat [ 30] and appeared to inhibit, rather
        than promote, cell proliferation in zebrafish [ 31].
        Additionally, Nac expression in the mouse forebrain
        promoted formation of radial glia, the earliest specificied
        cell type in forebrain [ 32] and either permitted [ 33] or
        promoted gliogenesis in the peripheral nervous system [
        34].
        By contrast, disruption of Notch signaling results in
        formation of excess early-born neurons. Antisense Notch RNA
        treatment or expression of a dominant negative form of
        Notch in chick resulted in excess ganglion cells, one of
        the first retinal cell types to differentiate [ 15].
        Similarly, expression of dominant negative Delta proteins
        caused formation of excess early-born neurons in the retina
        of frog [ 24] and chick [ 20] and in the neural plate of
        frog [ 25] and zebrafish [ 26, 27, 28], concomitant with
        decreased cell proliferation [ 20] and reduced numbers of
        late-born neurons [ 28]. Mouse embryos homozygous for a
        targeted mutation of 
        Notch1 or 
        RBP-Jκ, which encodes a downstream
        component of the Notch signaling pathway, had elevated
        levels of expression of neuronal markers, indicating
        formation of excess neurons [ 35]. Excess neurons also
        developed in mouse embryos homozygous for targeted mutation
        of 
        HES1 , a presumptive downstream
        effector of Notch signaling [ 36]. Recently, a mutant
        allele of the zebrafish 
        deltaA ( 
        dlA ) gene was identified and shown
        to cause formation of excess Rohon-Beard sensory neurons
        and decreased trunk neural crest progenitor cells [ 37, 38]
        and excess hair cells and decreased support cells in the
        ear [ 39].
        To investigate further the role of Notch-mediated
        cell-cell signaling in vertebrate neural development we
        have tested neural pattern formation in zebrafish embryos.
        We show by ablating single, identified primary motor
        neurons that these cells normally inhibit nearby cells from
        adopting the primary motor neuron fate. Our experiments
        lead us to conclude that in the absence of lateral
        inhibition the time during which neighboring cells can
        replace a missing cell is transient. This suggests that the
        temporal and spatial cues that specify neural cell fate are
        tightly regulated. We also show that in 
        dlA mutant embryos neural precursor
        cells prematurely cease dividing and differentiate as
        early-born neurons with identities appropriate for their
        positions within the spinal cord and that mutant embryos
        have reduced numbers of late-born neurons and glia. These
        observations support the idea that Delta-Notch mediated
        lateral inhibition coordinates transition of proliferative
        neural precursors into specified neurons and glia of the
        spinal cord.
      
      
        Results
        
          Delta-Notch pathway genes are expressed in neural
          precursor cells
          As a step toward a fuller understanding of the role
          that Delta-Notch signaling plays in patterning the
          zebrafish neural tube, we compared expression of several 
          delta and 
          notch genes to the distribution of
          neural precursor cells and differentiating neurons. We
          use the term, neural precursor cell, to indicate
          proliferative neuroepithelial cells that did not express
          Hu proteins [ 40]; we identified proliferative cells by
          their incorporation of BrdU. Conversely, we categorized
          those cells that expressed Hu proteins as post-mitotic,
          differentiating neurons. We examined the RNA expression
          patterns of 
          delta and 
          notch genes using a sensitive
          fluorescent detection method, choosing as our timepoint
          24 h (hours of development at 28.5°C; [ 41]). At this
          stage, primary neurons have differentiated and some
          secondary neurons are postmitotic and have differentiated
          while others remain in the cell cycle [ 42]. The assays
          described here do not discriminate between primary and
          secondary neurons.
          We show here expression of three 
          notch genes: 
          notch1a ( 
          n1a ), 
          notch1b ( 
          n1b ) and 
          notch5 ( 
          n5 ) [ 43, 44]. Cells throughout
          the dorsoventral extent of the trunk neural tube
          expressed each of these genes. Both Hu-negative and
          Hu-positive cells expressed 
          n1a (Figure 1A,B,C) whereas 
          n1b and 
          n5 expression appeared to be
          complementary to Hu localization (Figure 1D,E,F,G,H,I),
          indicating that neural precursors expressed 
          n1a and 
          n1b but differentiating neurons did
          not. Particularly intense staining for each gene was
          evident apically, suggesting that transcripts were
          concentrated where the neural tube lumen will form.
          We showed previously that post-mitotic primary neurons
          express 
          dlA transiently at the 4 somite
          stage [ 28]. Many neural plate cells in excess of known
          post-mitotic neurons expressed 
          dlA and 
          dlD , suggesting that these cells
          include neural precursors [ 26, 27, 28]. By contrast, 
          dlB expression appeared to be
          limited mostly to post-mitotic neurons [ 27]. At 24 h,
          cells throughout the trunk neural tube, including
          Hu-positive cells, expressed 
          dlA (Figure 1J,K,L). Both
          Hu-positive and Hu-negative cells also expressed 
          dlB (Figure 1M,N,O), however,
          apparently fewer of each class expressed 
          dlB at high level than 
          dlA . Some Hu-positive and many
          Hu-negative cells expressed 
          dlD (Figure 1P,Q,R). Together,
          these observations suggest that a subset of neural
          precursors and cells specified for neuronal development
          express 
          dlA , 
          dlB and 
          dlD .
          To examine directly whether proliferative cells of the
          trunk neural tube express 
          delta and 
          notch genes, we exposed embryos to
          a brief pulse of BrdU at 24 h. BrdU-positive cells
          expressed each of the 
          notch (data not shown) and 
          delta genes we tested (Figure
          2A,B,C). However, only a fraction of BrdU-positive cells
          expressed 
          delta genes:11.2% expressed 
          dlB (169 cells counted), 19.2%
          expressed 
          dlA (228 cells counted) and 20.1%
          expressed 
          dlD (186 cells counted). Together
          with the above data, we conclude that at least a portion
          of proliferative, neural precursor cells express each of
          these genes and that post-mitotic neurons express 
          n1a , 
          dlA , 
          dlB and 
          dlD . We speculate that the subset
          of BrdU-positive cells that express 
          delta genes are those fated to exit
          the cell cycle following the next mitosis and we
          interpret our failure to detect 
          n1b , 
          n5, dlB and 
          dlD RNA in all or some presumptive
          neurons as evidence that transcription of these genes is
          not maintained after cell cycle exit.
        
        
          Lateral inhibition regulates primary motor neuron
          number
          Widespread neural expression of 
          delta and 
          notch genes is consistent with the
          possiblity that cell-cell signaling contributes to
          pattern formation within the zebrafish nervous system. To
          examine this directly, we performed experiments designed
          to test whether lateral inhibition patterns primary motor
          neurons. Zebrafish primary motor neurons are distributed
          with a striking periodicity [ 45, 46]. In previous
          studies we found that 
          islet1 ( 
          isl1 ) expression, which marks
          primary motor neurons, was modified over time. Initially,
          contiguous cells in a row close to floorplate expressed 
          isl1 , whereas later, 
          isl1 -expressing cells were
          interspersed with cells that did not express 
          isl1 [ 46]. Currently, we cannot
          distinguish between the possibilities that alternating
          cells downregulate 
          isl1 expression or that cells that
          do not express 
          isl1 move between those that do.
          Nevertheless, to maintain this periodicity, 
          isl1 -negative cells must not
          transcribe 
          isl1 , despite being equidistant
          with 

          isl1 -positive cells from notochord
          and floorplate, presumed sources of signals that induce
          motor neuron development [ 47]. To test whether newly
          born primary motor neurons inhibit neighboring cells from
          adopting similar fates, we ablated identified CaP and VaP
          motor neurons [ 48] and asked whether these cells were
          replaced. Normally, CaP develops in every hemisegment,
          midway between adjacent somite boundaries. VaP develops
          in about one half the hemisegments; when present it is
          next to CaP. Both cells express 
          isl2 whereas other primary motor
          neurons do not [ 46]. Previous experiments showed that
          when CaP was removed from 13 somite stage embryos, it was
          never replaced [ 49]. For this experiment, we extirpated
          CaP and, when present, VaP from the right side of spinal
          hemisegment 7 (R7) in 11 somite stage embryos, 1 hour
          earlier in developmental time than in previous
          experiments [ 49]. We let these embryos develop until the
          19 somite stage and probed for expression of 
          isl2 . Of a total of 13 embryos in
          which these ablations were performed, 11 developed a CaP
          or CaP and VaP in the ablated position, indicating that
          the ablated cells were replaced. The remaining two
          embryos showed no replacement. Although we do not know
          the normal fates of the cells that replaced ablated
          primary motor neurons, these observations are consistent
          with the possibility that, during normal development,
          primary motor neurons inhibit neighboring cells from
          adopting a primary motor neuron fate.
        
        
          deltaAmutant embryos have fewer neural precursor
          cells and excess neurons
          To further test the role of Delta-Notch mediated
          lateral inhibition in zebrafish neurogenesis, we examined
          embryos homozygous for a missense mutation of 
          dlA ( 
          dlA dx2 ). We previously described
          the effect of this mutation on development of floorplate,
          notochord and hypochord [ 37] and dorsal spinal sensory
          neurons and neural crest [ 38]. To gauge the extent to
          which Notch signaling is disrupted in 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos we examined
          expression of 
          ngn1 , a proneural gene negatively
          regulated by Notch activity [ 50]. Zebrafish neural plate
          stage embryos express 
          ngn1 in three longitudinal domains
          of the prospective trunk neural tube ([ 50]; Figure 3A),
          which correspond to regions that express elevated levels
          of 
          dlA and in which the earliest
          neurons are born [ 28]. Cells within the longitudinal
          domains of wild-type embryos do not express 
          ngn1 uniformly; rather, in situ RNA
          hybridization revealed higher levels of 
          ngn1 transcripts in some cells than
          in others ([ 50]; Figure 3A). By contrast, cells within
          the longitudinal domains of 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos expressed 
          ngn1 at uniformly high levels
          (Figure 3B). Notably, the mediolateral extent of each
          domain appeared unchanged. We conclude that the 
          dlA dx2 allele disrupts Notch
          signaling within neurogenic regions of zebrafish embryos
          but does not influence the formation of neurogenic
          domains.
          In addition to elevated levels of 
          ngn1 expression, 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos have excess
          Rohon-Beard spinal sensory neurons and reduced numbers of
          trunk neural crest precursors [ 37, 38]. To investigate
          the basis for these and other neural phenotypes in 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos we compared
          the balance of proliferative neural precursor cells and
          post-mitotic neurons in wild-type and 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos. When
          treated with a pulse of BrdU at 24 h, wild-type embryos
          revealed BrdU-positive cells and a distinct,
          non-overlapping set of basally located 
          huC -positive neurons (Figure 4A).
          By contrast, 24 h 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos had few
          BrdU-positive cells and a large excess of 
          huC -positive cells (Figure 4B). We
          conclude that, in 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos, most neural
          precursor cells cease dividing and develop as neurons.
          Consequently, the neural precursor pool is depleted in
          mutant embryos and replaced by post-mitotic neurons.
        
        
          deltaAmutant embryos have excess early-specified
          neurons and fewer late-specified neurons and glia
          The above observations indicate that neural precursor
          cells prematurely differentiate in 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos. We imagined
          two possible consequences for neural cell fate
          specification. First, all normally developing neural cell
          types might be specified but some might arise ahead of
          schedule. Second, the progenitors for cell types that
          normally arise late might instead develop identities
          appropriate for early-born cell types, resulting in an
          excess of some cell types and reduction of others. We
          previously showed that disruption of Delta-Notch
          signaling, by injection of RNA encoding a dominant
          negative form of frog Delta-1 protein into early cleavage
          stage zebrafish embryos, caused formation of excess
          early-specified primary motor neurons and reduced numbers
          of later-specified secondary motor neurons [ 28]. Our
          observations of 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos confirm and
          extend those results. 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos had excess
          presumptive primary motor neurons and Rohon-Beard neurons
          (Figure 5A,B; [ 37, 38]). By contrast, the number of
          secondary motor neurons in mutant embryos was greatly
          reduced (Figure 5C,D). Primary motor neurons can be
          distinguished by cell body position, axon projection, and
          gene expression [ 46, 51]. To learn how the 
          dlA dx2 mutation affected
          specification of primary motor neuron identity, we probed
          embryos for expression of 
          isl2 , which serves as a marker for
          CaP and VaP, two of four identified primary motor neurons
          [ 46].18 h mutant embryos had excess 
          isl2 -positive cells in the ventral
          trunk neural tube (Figure 5E,F). These cells appeared as
          clusters of about 3-5 cells, located midway between
          adjacent somite borders, consistent with the normal
          position of CaP and VaP motor neurons. This indicates
          that disruption of Delta-Notch signaling causes
          development of excess primary motor neurons, which have
          identities appropriate for their positions in the neural
          tube. Previously, we showed that primary motor neuron
          identity is dependent upon cell body position within the
          ventral spinal cord [ 46, 52]. We conclude that
          Delta-Notch signaling regulates specification of
          appropriate numbers of primary motor neurons but does not
          regulate specification of motor neuronal identity.
          We also investigated whether other cell types were
          affected in mutant embryos by examining expression of
          markers of various interneurons, including 
          lim1, lim5 and Pax2. Spinal cord
          cells begin to express 
          lim1 and 
          pax2 by about 14-15 h [ 53, 54] and
          
          lim5 by 24 h [ 55] indicating that
          these cells are born relatively early in neurogenesis.
          Excess numbers of cells expressed each of these markers
          in 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos (Figure
          5G,H,I,J,K,L). Notably, the dorsoventral position of
          cells expressing each of these markers was similar in
          mutant and wild-type embryos. Finally, 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos had greatly
          reduced numbers of presumptive radial glia cells, labeled
          by antibody zrf-1 (Figure 5M,N). Although we do not know
          the time or place that these cells originate in the
          neural tube, we do not detect expression with this marker
          until 30-36 h, well after the onset of primary neuron
          birth at about 11 h and secondary motor neuron birth at
          about 16 h. Together with the above BrdU results, these
          observations indicate that disruption of Delta-Notch
          signaling causes excess neural precursors to be specified
          for early-born neuronal fates at the expense of
          later-born neuronal and glial fates, without interfering
          with mechanisms that specify early-born neuronal identity
          along the dorsoventral axis.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        
          In zebrafish, both neural precursors and neurons
          express notchand deltagenes
          Expression of activated Notch proteins can prevent
          neural cell differentiation [ 15, 16, 20, 24, 25, 29]. In
          vertebrate embryonic nervous systems, proliferative
          undifferentiated cells express 
          Notch genes [ 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
          18, 19, 21, 24]; thus, Notch activity may maintain the
          neural precursor state. Notably, some differentiated
          neural cells, such as Müller glia and radial glia,
          express 
          Notch genes [ 30, 32] raising the
          possibility that Notch signaling does more than simply
          block differentiation. By contrast, only post-mitotic
          neural cells have been shown to express 
          Delta genes [ 18, 20, 23]. This
          pattern of expression is consistent with the idea that
          specified, post-mitotic cells use Delta signaling to
          prevent neighboring cells from differentiating. However,
          it differs from the fly embryonic central nervous system
          wherein all cells of the prospective neuroectoderm
          express Delta with the exception of delaminated
          neuroblasts [ 56]. This indicates that, in flies,
          precursors express Delta and that those specified for
          neuroblast development downregulate its expression.
          Here, we show that some zebrafish neural cells in S
          phase of the cell cycle and post-mitotic differentiating
          neurons express 
          delta genes. We interpret these
          data to mean that a subset of proliferative neural
          precursors upregulate 
          delta gene expression. Upregulation
          might engage a feedback loop mechanism, in which Notch
          activation in neighboring cells maintains them in a
          proliferative, unspecified state whereas those cells that
          upregulate Delta expression, and have decreased Notch
          activity, are driven to exit the cell cycle and to
          differentiate.
        
        
          Zebrafish primary motor neurons may inhibit primary
          motor neuron fate in neighboring cells
          Lateral inhibition was originally defined by
          functional tests in which ablation of a cell of primary
          fate allowed an adjacent cell to take that fate, but
          ablation of a cell of secondary fate had no effect [ 8].
          Ablation experiments performed on grasshoppers showed
          that neuroblasts laterally inhibit neighboring cells from
          also developing as neuroblasts [ 5]. Genetic analyses of
          fly development then led to the view that lateral
          inhibition is mediated by interaction of Delta and Notch
          proteins expressed on neighboring cells [ 12]. Our
          ablation studies, coupled with our studies of Delta and
          Notch expression and with analysis of a 
          dlA mutation, provide evidence
          consistent with the possibility that similar mechanisms
          operate during specification of individual neural fates
          in a vertebrate nervous system.
          Mutant and gene overexpression phenotypes in various
          vertebrate model systems support the notion that
          Delta-Notch signaling mediates lateral inhibition in the
          central nervous system [ 16, 20, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
          35]. However, to our knowledge, until now direct evidence
          for lateral inhibition in the vertebrate central nervous
          system has not been reported. Previously, when primary
          motor neurons were ablated in 13 somite stage embryos,
          approximately 6 hours after birth, they were not replaced
          [ 49]. Here, we ablated primary motor neurons 1 hour
          earlier in developmental time and found that, in nearly
          every case, they were replaced. Together, our ablation
          results reveal an important feature of vertebrate
          neuronal specification: that the mechanisms that specify
          fate must be exquisitely timed. We view the failure to
          replace primary motor neurons ablated at 13 somite stage
          as indicating that the time at which a cell can be
          specified for that fate has passed, either because
          neighboring precursors have been specified for other
          fates or because the signals that specify primary motor
          neurons are no longer present. Future experiments, aimed
          at learning the fates of cells neighboring primary motor
          neurons may distinguish between these possibilities.
        
        
          Delta-Notch signaling regulates cell proliferation
          and diversifies neural cell fate
          Here we took advantage of the fact that 
          dlA dx2 mutant zebrafish embryos
          survive several days after onset of neuronal
          differentiation to investigate how Delta-Notch signaling
          influences neural cell fate. We show that mutant embryos
          have a significant reduction in proliferative neural
          cells and a concomitant increase in neurons. These
          neurons have fates characteristic of the earliest-born
          neurons in zebrafish. Strikingly, the molecular
          identities of the excess, early-born neurons in 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos are
          appropriate for their positions in the trunk neural tube.
          This is evident across the dorsoventral axis of the
          neural tube as well as within localized areas of the
          ventral neural tube occupied by distinct motor neurons.
          In other words, early-born neurons are specified
          appropriately in 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos; what these
          embryos lack is the ability to regulate the number of
          cells specified for any particular fate.
          We also showed that 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos have reduced
          numbers of later-born cell types including secondary
          motor neurons and radial glia. One possible explanation
          for this effect is that the premature exit of neural
          precursor cells from the cell cycle depletes the
          precursor pool. In this view, Delta-Notch signaling
          diversifies neural cell fate by guiding the orderly, and
          prolonged, transition from neural precursor cells to
          specified cells. Specification of a particular cellular
          identity might depend entirely upon the influence of
          instructive signals that change with time. For example,
          zebrafish ventral neural precursors might be specified
          differently by different lengths of exposure to Hedgehog
          (Hh) signaling. Those competent to respond to brief
          exposure to Hh might be specified as primary motor
          neurons whereas those subject to prolonged exposure prior
          to differentiation might develop as secondary motor
          neurons [ 57]. Notch activity might be important for
          specification of secondary motor neurons by holding them
          in an unspecified state for long enough to receive
          sufficient exposure to Hedgehog signaling. Disruption of
          Notch signaling would then allow an excess of precursor
          cells to respond promptly to Hedgehog signaling,
          producing an excess of primary motor neurons and a
          concomitant deficit of secondary motor neurons, precisely
          the phenotype of 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos we show
          here.
          A second possibility, supported by recent
          publications, is that Notch activity specifies certain
          cell fates, in particular, glial fates. Notch activity
          promotes gliogenesis in forebrain, retina, and cultured
          neural crest [ 30, 31, 32, 34]. Our observation that 
          dlA dx2 mutant embryos lack radial
          glia of the trunk neural tube also is consistent with
          this possibility. In fact, Notch activity might both hold
          neural precursor cells in an unspecified state and
          subsequently promote a subset of them to develop as glia.
          Conditional misexpression of activated Notch in
          individual precursor cells of the trunk neural tube might
          provide a way to distinguish between these
          possibilities.
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        In zebrafish, at least three 
        notch genes are expressed by
        proliferative neural precursors and at least three 
        delta genes are expressed by subsets
        of proliferative precursors and post-mitotic neurons. Thus,
        precursors fated to exit the cell cycle and differentiate
        may express elevated levels of 
        delta genes, causing them to signal
        to neighboring 
        notch -expressing precursors.
        Signaling between neighboring cells appears to regulate
        primary motor neuron specification: when we removed primary
        motor neurons soon after birth they were replaced,
        presumably by neighboring precursors. Genetic disruption of
        Delta-Notch signaling causes precursors to prematurely
        terminate cell division and differentiate as early-born
        neurons, with identities appropriate to their cell body
        positions, at the expense of later born neurons and glia.
        We propose that in the zebrafish central nervous system
        cell-cell interactions, mediated by Delta-Notch signaling,
        help coordinate transition of proliferative precursors to
        specified neurons and glia.
      
      
        Materials and methods
        
          Embryos
          Embryos from the University of Oregon and Vanderbilt
          University laboratory colonies were raised at 28.5°C.
          Staging was according to Kimmel et al. (1995). The 
          dlA dx2 allele is incompletely
          penetrant and variably expressive [ 37, 38, 39]. Mutant
          embryos shown here are those exhibiting the most severe
          mutant phenotypes.
        
        
          Cell Ablations
          Individual CaP or CaP and VaP motor neurons were
          removed from the right side of segment 7 (R7) of 11
          somite stage embryos by aspiration with a micropipette
          broken manually to a tip diameter of 8-12 μm, using
          methods described previously [ 52].
        
        
          BrdU Labeling, in situ RNA Hybridization and
          Immunohistochemistry
          Manually dechorionated embryos were labeled with BrdU
          by incubating them for 20 minutes on ice in a solution of
          10 mM BrdU and 15% DMSO in Embryo Medium [ 58]. The BrdU
          solution was replaced with Embryo Medium and the embryos
          were incubated for 20 minutes at 28.5°C. The embryos were
          then anesthetized using 3-aminobenzoic acid ethyl ester
          and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde. in situ RNA
          hybridization on BrDU-labeled embryos was carried out as
          described previously [ 59] except that the probes were
          not hydrolyzed. Following color development, the embryos
          were treated with 2 N NaOH for 1 hr, washed with PBSTx
          (phosphate buffered saline with 0.01% TritonX-100),
          blocked 1 hr in PBDTx (PBS, 1% DMSO, 0.01% TritonX-100
          plus 2% sheep serum and 2 mg/ml BSA, then incubated 2 hr
          with anti-BrdU (monoclonal G3G4, Developmental Studies
          Hybridoma Bank). Detection was carried out using a
          biotinylated goat anti-mouse secondary antibody followed
          by streptavidin conjugated to peroxidase (Jackson
          ImmunoResearch Laboratories, Inc.). A brown precipitate
          was formed using Fast Dab (Sigma).
          For fluorescent detection of RNA hybridization and
          antibody labeling, embryos were first treated for RNA
          hybridization and then sectioned using a cryostat
          microtome. The sections were incubated with monoclonal
          16A11 anti-Hu antibody (University of Oregon Monoclonal
          Antibody Facility) and anti-digoxygenin-AP antibody
          (Roche). Anti-Hu labeling was detected using goat
          anti-mouse Alexa 488 antibody (Molecular Probes) and
          anti-digoxygenin-AP labeling was detected using HNPP
          Fluorescent Detection (Roche). Images were collected
          using a Spot camera (Diagnostic Instruments, Inc.)
          mounted on an Olympus AX70 microscope. Double-label
          images were created using Photoshop to merge individual
          red and green images.
          Additional in situ RNA hybridizations were performed
          as described previously [ 59]. Additional primary
          antibodies used were zn-8 to detect Dmgrasp and zrf-1
          (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank) and polyclonal
          rabbit anti Pax-2 (Berkeley Antibody Co.).
        
      
    
  
