
  
  
    
      In 1985 a group of courageous pioneering women established the YWCA of
      Indianapolis to meet the needs of women, and in 1998 the tradition
      continues. The WYCA of Indianapolis still focuses on, supports, and gives
      empowerment to women and their families. Empowerment refers to meeting
      the needs of girls and women so that they can freely exercise the power
      to determine and direct their lives.
      How does the YWCA differ from other organizations that provide health,
      fitness, social and education services? Our answer to that is, we stay
      focused on our mission of empowerment of women and their families. Each
      prospective and current program is evaluated on the basis of its support
      of one or more aspects of women's needs.
      Please join us as we prepare for and enter into the 21st century.
      
      
      Who We Are? The YWCA is the oldest and largest organization for women
      and girls in the world and is dedicated to the empowerment of women, and
      the elimination of racism in order to attain a common vision of peace,
      justice, freedom, and dignity for all people.
      What We Do? The Indianapolis YWCA is an open, supportive organization
      concerned with women and families; providing opportunities to develop
      skills, knowledge and resources in the areas of health, self-awareness
      and leadership. The Indianapolis YWCA does not have all the answers to
      helping our daughters, sisters, mothers, aunts and friends to address the
      challenges of this era, but we commit this organization to assist in the
      process of improving the quality of life for all women.
      Where We Are? The YWCA is housed at the YWCA Resource and Conference
      Center on 22 beautiful acres of grounds including amenities such as a 50
      meter olympic-size outdoor pool with attached junior and baby pools,
      equipped playground, shelter and picnic areas, basketball court, soccer
      and softball fields. YWCA programs are carried out on the YWCA campus, in
      schools, shelters, public housing communities, correctional facilities
      and other locations throughout central Indiana.
      What Makes All of This Possible? In 1997 The United Way of Central
      Indiana generously assisted us with 25% of our budgetary needs;
      government and other foundation grants made up an additional 23%; and
      program fees and contribution from people like you provided the other
      52%. A tax-deductible gift to the YWCA is an investment in women and
      their families throughout the Central Indiana area. Our Development
      program offers many giving opportunities to meet your company's or
      family's philanthropic needs to create positive change in your
      community.
      Financial assistance to support programs and services is needed in the
      following areas:
      General Operating Fund: Covers operating expense of facilities and
      Programs.
      Grief and Loss Program: Counseling and learning objectives designed to
      lead incarcerated youth to an understanding of grief and loss related
      influences on their behavior
      Parenting Programs: Counseling and learning objectives designed to
      teach and support skills to incarcerated women that produce healthier,
      more positive relationships with their children primarily to reduce child
      abuse.
      Young Parents Program: A key component in reduction of potential risk
      of child abuse, designed to decrease stress in the parent/child
      relationship enabling the parent to continue school attendance and
      achievement.
      School Age Child Care: Provides affordable, developmentally
      appropriate care of children both before and after school.
      Youth Enrichment: Supplements the school curriculum through exciting
      educational activities at the YWCA facility and other community
      sites.
      Campership: Allows children to learn, play, and develop friendships
      during their summer and holiday vacations.
      Health and Wellness: Encourages a lifelong commitment to maintaining a
      healthy body.
      Breast and Cervical Cancer Program: Provides information on the signs
      and symptoms and assists women in finding and using local resources for
      breast exams, mammographies, and pap smears.
      
    
  
