
  
  
    
      The Salvation Army 3100 N. Meridian Street Indianapolis, IN
      46208-4718
      June 1, 1999
      Name Address City, ST, Zip
      Dear Mr. Name,
      The Salvation Army received a note not long ago from a woman who makes
      contributions to our programs from time to time. She'd been thinking
      about our Camping program for children.
      Her note explained that while driving through the country recently --
      in a rare moment when she didn't have a lot on her mind -- she found
      herself truly aware of her surroundings. Lush, green fields that
      stretched for miles... wisps of white clouds scattered across a clear,
      blue sky... tranquil silence broken only by cheerful bird songs... the
      fresh, sweet scent of morning air. And she felt a sense of peace, for the
      first time in a long time.
      What a contrast from the city she'd left a few miles back. Filthy
      sidewalks where children play. Boarded-up buildings where people live.
      Blaring sirens and horrendous crime. She recalled a report on TV the
      night before about a teenager who shot an even younger boy to death as
      part of a gang initiation.
      She has a hard time understanding why things like this happen -- why
      some children have no respect for life, not even their own.
      She wondered what would happen if she could take one child from the
      city and place that youngster where she was now -- in the midst of this
      beauty and serenity. What would change for that boy or girl?
      That's when she thought about The Salvation Army's camping program.
      She remembered reading how kids from the Indiana cities spend a week
      every summer at Hidden Falls Camp. They spend most of their time
      outdoors, playing games with new friends, discovering flowers they've
      never seen, and creating treasures from sticks, rocks and leaves. Here,
      kids get their fill of good food, love and attention -- things many of
      them get too little of at home.
      With her note, she enclosed a check for $230 to send one child to camp
      this summer. She'd never given that much money before. But she was
      convinced it would make a difference.
      
      It's hard to explain exactly how camp can change a child's heart. But
      I know it does.
      Kids probably wonder what God looks like. If I could speak to them, I
      would tell them they can see a great deal of God in the trees and stars
      and streams that He created. When they're running with the wind in their
      faces and the sun on their backs... or stepping barefoot onto cool, green
      grass... they would begin to understand what I mean.
      I'm telling you all this because perhaps you, too, are asking
      questions -- why one child takes the life of another... why children feel
      so empty inside that they turn to drugs to fill the void... why they have
      so little self-worth that they value the friendship of thieves and
      killers.
      And perhaps you're also asking, "What can I do?"
      I don't have all the answers. But I am certain of this: You can make a
      difference in one child's life by sending a gift to The Salvation Army's
      camping program.
      It costs approximately $230 to send one boy or girl from Central
      Indiana to camp for a week. That may sound like a lot. However, when you
      consider transportation, food, lodging, crafts, sports, counseling and
      much more, you realize it covers a lot (and equals what you might pay for
      a night or two of lodging at a hotel).
      If you can't sponsor a child for a whole week, perhaps you can send
      enough for half a week -- or even just one day. Your contribution may
      also be used to support our year-round programs for children.
      You see, camp is only the first step. Through the year, we also offer
      a number of different programs -- including scouting, basketball and
      after-school activities -- to help children develop talents, character
      and self-esteem.
      Please prayerfully consider how much you can give... and give just a
      little more.
      I guarantee you'll feel good knowing you've helped us touch a heart.
      Perhaps you'll even save a life. At the very least, you'll give one child
      the chance to see God's face, and feel His love. Often, that's all it
      takes to change a life.
      Blessings,
      Jack C Getz Major DIVISIONAL COMMANDER
      P.S. The list of children who want to attend camp this year grows
      longer every day, and it's important that we send every one of them. With
      your help, no child will be disappointed. Please send your most generous
      gift today.
    
  
