
  
  
    
      June 21, 1999
      Dear Mrs. Name,
      Ted is a single father with three children under 10. He's never been
      on welfare and he's always had a job doing manual labor. Life isn't easy
      for Ted, but he's determined to raise his children himself and be a good
      role model for them. It wasn't always like that. There was a time when he
      felt like he had no choice but to tolerate his wife's constant abuse and
      neglect of their children. Then Ted decided the children deserved a
      chance to start over in another town, no matter how difficult it might
      prove to be.
      What happens when people are living on the edge -- barely able to
      survive –- and an unexpected emergency arises? What happens if they
      can't pay their heating or electric bill because of extreme temperatures?
      What happens if their children get sick? What happens if they get
      sick?
      Starting over can be very hard -- especially for people who don't have
      family or financial resources to draw from in an emergency.
      That's why I'm writing to you today. Through your financial support,
      you've already demonstrated that you want to help genuinely needy people
      begin anew. So, I'd like to give you one more way to make a difference:
      The Salvation Army Care Card.
      Although it can't be used to make purchases or withdraw money from an
      ATM, the value of this Card could be immeasurable -- for the person whose
      life it might change.
      Here's how it works: Simply detach the Care Card from the top of this
      letter and keep it handy. Then, if you know of or come across someone who
      needs our help, please give the card to him or her. It shows our address
      and phone number in Indianapolis, but through our Service Extension
      Office, we can put the person in contact with the volunteer
      representative in Clinton County. We'll welcome their call and do our
      best to help them through the difficult time, so they can get on with
      their lives.
      And just as important, I invite you to renew your partnership with The
      Salvation Army by sending a contribution, once again, today. Your
      donation of $25, $50, $125, $250 or more will help us remain a steady
      source of assistance for people like Ted.
      Thank you for your continued financial support, and for remaining
      alert for neighbors who need a helping hand. God bless you for your
      compassion and kindness.
      Blessings,
      Jack C. Getz Major DIVISIONAL COMMANDER
      P.S. Your gift today will help us care for struggling families, hungry
      children, and lonely and needy senior citizens right here in this
      community.
    
  
