
  
  
    
      September 18, 1997
      Dear Marion Co. '93-95 Donor:
      I'm writing to tell you about an investment opportunity. One that will
      allow you to change pain into relief, anger into love, despair into
      opportunity -- and assure you that you'll be making central Indiana a
      better place to live, work and prosper.
      It's not just any investment. It's an investment in our community
      through United Way of Central Indiana. An investment with many returns of
      relief, love and opportunity. And this year, your investment is more
      important than ever.
      Only one charity can touch the lives of individuals in need AND
      demonstrate an impact on our community's urgent needs. That's United Way.
      United Way's impact begins with research that helps answer important
      questions:
      What are the most important human needs here in central Indiana? What
      programs can be funded to effectively reduce those needs?
      United Way is the only organization that asks, and answers these
      questions. And by doing this, United Way makes your investment count.
      Human needs are on the rise in central Indiana and we have to meet the
      challenge. This year we've set an ambitious goal -- $31.75 million --
      which is over $1 million more than our 1996 total.
      Why is your investment so important? Last year, your investment
      helped:
      Strengthen families. 91% (96) of the 106 participants in parenting
      classes at Family Service Association because of child abuse, reported
      increased use of positive discipline and decreased use of abusive
      discipline.
      Teach children. 96% (173) of the 177 at-risk children enrolled in St.
      Mary's early childhood program demonstrated an increase in their social,
      emotional, physical, cognitive, speech and language development.
      Make people self-sufficient. 87% (325) of the 344 homeless families
      (1,353 persons) assisted and sheltered at Catholic Social Services' Holy
      Family Shelter found independent housing.
      These good things happened in central Indiana last year because people
      like you cared enough to make an investment in our community.
      And it's not just about programs. You're investing in people, as well.
      People who otherwise wouldn't have anywhere to turn. Here are some quotes
      from people who have been helped by United Way of Central Indiana
      agencies:
      'If it were not for the services they provide us, we older persons
      would not be able to get around to do our business, such as visits to
      doctors, grocery and drug stores.' -- William, age 72
      'Thanks to the job training I received, I've learned the skills to get
      and keep a job, and take care of my family on my own. ' -- Michelle, age
      34
      'I was able to get pre-natal care and have a healthy baby. Not only
      that, I learned how to care for my baby after she was born. ' -- Sarah,
      age 17
      These people are living proof that your investment pays off.
      Your investment is used efficiently -- 88% OF FUNDS RAISED ARE
      INVESTED DIRECTLY IN SERVICES THAT HELP MEET CRITICAL COMMUNITY NEEDS.
      This is much more efficient than most other non-profits and
      government-run programs. Your money counts when you invest through United
      Way.
      Your investment is critical to making our community a better place.
      According to our records, you invested $125 in the past, but we haven't
      heard from you recently. Please find it in your heart to renew your gift
      this year if at all possible. We need everyone's help to make our goal
      and meet our community's increased needs.
      Just fill out the enclosed pledge card and send it in the return
      envelope today. And be assured that you've made a good investment -- an
      investment that benefits all of us.
      Sincerely,
      
      Michael J. Alley 1997 United Way of Central Indiana Campaign Chair
      P.S. Your investment helps serve the elderly and disabled, too. Last
      year, of 64 physically disabled adults who received occupational therapy
      at Crossroads Rehabilitation Center, 91% (58) improved their independent
      living skills. Your tax-deductible contribution can make a measurable
      difference!
    
  
