
  
  
    
      September 20, 1994 John E Prospect 1 Main St. Indianapolis, IN
      46200
      Dear Mr. Prospect:
      You can help more than 200,000 people with just one gift.
      And your gift is needed now more than ever.
      Your one gift to United Way of Central Indiana supports 82 human
      service agencies that help people right here in central Indiana. Only if
      you contribute this year can these agencies continue to provide programs
      and services that:
      Strengthen Families -- Help victims of child abuse & neglect,
      answer crisis hotlines, prevent family violence & counsel the
      mentally ill;
      Invest In Our Children -- Provide child care, scouting & youth
      programs, foster care & adoption as well as mentoring &
      counseling for teen parents;
      Serve The Elderly And Disabled -- Provide meals & visits to the
      homebound, as well as speech, hearing & physical therapy for people
      with disabilities;
      Help People Become Self-Sufficient -- offer shelter for homeless
      families, disaster relief, employment & training, neighborhood
      support centers & specialized transportation;
      Promote Health And Well-Being -- Administer immunization programs
      provide drug & alcohol treatment, screening for cancer, heart disease
      & other conditions and provide health education & home nursing
      care.
      Odds are that you, a family member, friend, or neighbor may already be
      benefiting from the services of one of United Way's family of agencies
      listed at the left.(see hard copy). EACH YEAR, UNITED WAY OF CENTRAL
      INDIANA AGENCIES HELP MORE THAN 200,000 PEOPLE in Boone, Hamilton,
      Hancock, Hendricks, Marion, and Morgan counties.
      Your gift matters to all kinds of people.
      People like Michael, who lived as a homeless person on the banks of
      the White River until he was helped by Horizon House. Gifts to United Way
      helped provide shelter, medical care, counseling and job placement to end
      his homelessness.
      People like four-year-old Levi, who was born with spina bifida and
      unable to walk or talk until he received therapy at Crossroads
      Rehabilitation Center. Now he gets around, talks, and even attends a
      public preschool.
      People like 74-year-old Margaret, who keeps active by playing bridge
      and taking classes in Spanish, aerobics and sewing at Heritage Place.
      People like Gloria, who was able to beat breast cancer thanks to the
      mammography early detection program at the Little Red Door Cancer
      Agency.
      People like Sophronia, who was abused by her former husband before she
      and her children received shelter and counseling from The Julian
      Center.
      ALL OF THESE PEOPLE RECEIVED MUCH-NEEDED HELP, BECAUSE PEOPLE LIKE YOU
      GAVE TO UNITED WAY OF CENTRAL INDIANA.
      Your gift, no matter what the size, can benefit the lives of people
      here in our community. Here are just some of the services your gift can
      buy:
      $5.81 provides a hot, nutritious meal for a person aged 60+.
      $23.32 provides two visits by a trained home health aide to an elderly
      homebound person.
      $69.70 provides 10 hours of vocational evaluation & training for
      an unemployed person aged 16 or over.
      $90.58 provides the cost for one boy or girl to participate in
      scouting activities for a year.
      $146.50 provides 10 hours of services to a child aged 3-5 to help her
      or him overcome a learning disability.
      YOU CAN HELP SUPPORT THESE AND OTHER NEEDED SERVICES HERE IN CENTRAL
      INDIANA.
      Community needs are increasing and your help is needed more than ever.
      Please consider giving a gift of $__ to help your friends and neighbors
      here in central Indiana who benefit from United Way's family of agencies.
      Just fill out the enclosed pledge card and send it with your check in the
      return envelope right away.
      Any gift you can send is appreciated and will be put to good use
      helping people who really need help right here in central Indiana.
      Thank you in advance for your generous support.
      Sincerely,
      Sallie W. Rowland 1994 United Way of Central Indiana Campaign
      Chair
      P.S. YOUR TAX-DEDUCTIBLE CONTRIBUTION WILL BE USED EFFICIENTLY. 90
      cents of every dollar you donate go directly to programs and services
      that help your neighbors here in central Indiana.
      
    
  
