
  
  
    
      August 25, 1995
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Mr. Business Owner:
      Community needs are everyone's business. How a community pulls
      together to help those in need defines that community as a good place to
      live, a good place to raise a family, and a good place to do
      business.
      In our community, there is a partnership that pulls together every
      year to meet urgent needs, and helps ensure that central Indiana
      continues to be a good place to live, work and do business - the
      partnership between businesses like yours, United Way of Central Indiana,
      and its family of 82 human service agencies. I am writing to ask you, as
      a business leader, to invest in our community by contributing to this
      partnership through United Way of Central Indiana.
      By investing in the community through this partnership, you can help
      more than 220,000 people in central Indiana next year. United Way
      agencies are there for everyone--you, your family, your friends, and your
      employees. In fact. United Way agencies can help your employees by
      providing services that may not be available elsewhere. such as:
      low-cost daycare, children's recreation, scouting, and other youth
      activities, emergency and disaster relief, counseling for victims of
      domestic violence and abuse, screening for cancer, heart disease, and
      other conditions, and more.
      By supporting United Way, you are ensuring that these important
      services continue. You'll also be making a good investment.
      $1.00 invested in drug-and-alcohol treatment saves $11.00 in later
      costs of crime, unemployment, and other social problems.
      $1.00 invested in preschool education for a disadvantaged child saves
      $4.75 in later special education, welfare payments, crime, and other
      costs.
      $1.00 invested in a job-training program for a person on welfare saves
      $3.65 in one year and $7.30 in two years in welfare costs and annual
      salary (based on $6.00 per hour, full-time employment).
      AS YOU CAN SEE, INVESTING IN UNITED WAY OF CENTRAL INDIANA MAKES GOOD
      BUSINESS SENSE.
      United Way of Central Indiana adds value to your investment. It
      sponsors a single, efficient annual campaign for the 82 human service
      agencies that meet a variety of needs here in central Indiana. If each
      agency were responsible for raising all of its funds, businesses like
      yours would be inundated with individual solicitations, even more than
      they are now, and many necessary services would go unfunded.
      United Way of Central Indiana adds value by doing research and
      follow-up to make sure that the most important needs are being met in the
      most efficient way. Through its community-based allocation system, United
      Way makes sure each year that the community's highest priorities, as set
      by community leaders like you, are served well. When you support United
      Way, you can be sure your investment is used prudently: 90 cents of every
      dollar raised go directly to programs and services that help people in
      need here in central Indiana.
      We are very grateful for your last contribution of $95, an investment
      which paid off by touching lives in hundreds of ways throughout central
      Indiana. This year, please consider renewing or increasing your
      contribution. Just fill out the enclosed pledge card and send it in the
      return envelope. Then, watch as your investment is used to help make
      central Indiana a better community in which to live, work and
      prosper.
      Sincerely,
      Gerald L. Bepko 1995 United Way of Central Indiana Campaign Chair
      P.S. Please join the thousands of companies that believe that caring
      for the community's well-being is an important part of doing business
      here in central Indiana. Make a tax-deductible investment in the
      community today!
    
  
