
  
  
    
      Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, commonly known as "crib death," is our
      nation's major cause of death for infants one week to one year of age.
      Annually SIDS claims the lives of approximately 3,000 babies in the
      United States. It is one of the more significant factors that places the
      United States 20th among the 36 industrialized nations of the world in
      infant mortality rates. SIDS is a public health issue of utmost concern
      to every new and expectant parent--and grandparent--in the United States
      today.
      Although research is beginning to provide answers regarding factors
      that may increase the risk for SIDS and suggest actions parents can take
      to reduce the risks, these measures will not save all babies.
      We still do not know what causes SIDS, we cannot predict which babies
      are vulnerable, nor can we prevent all SIDS deaths. Further research is
      needed and families still need help.
      The SIDS Alliance is a non-profit, tax exempt national voluntary
      health organization, established over a decade ago to combat SIDS. The
      SIDS Alliance and its 50 Affiliates throughout the United States are
      dedicated to eliminating SIDS through research, serving SIDS families,
      and educating professionals and the general public about SIDS. The SIDS
      Alliance meets all National Charities Information Bureau (NCIB)
      standards, and is listed in the NCIB Wisegiving Guide.
      The SIDS Alliance has also received a high rating (A-) from the
      American Institute of Philanthropy, and has been named one of the top
      children's charities in America by Parenting, Child and Parents
      magazines.
      Until our future is free from SIDS, the SIDS Alliance will continue to
      serve as a source of strength for the tens of thousands of families who
      have experienced the loss of a beloved baby to SIDS, an advocate for
      compassion and public understanding, and a catalyst for finding solutions
      through research. Our battle is far from over and we are grateful for
      your support of our efforts.
      We count on your continuing interest in Sudden Infant Death Syndrome,
      the SIDS Alliance and our programs. We need volunteers to help provide
      essential services to families whose lives are tragically changed by the
      loss of a baby; and financial support to expand our public education and
      research efforts that will some day solve this mysterious threat to our
      children's lives. Please consider making a contribution to help us SAVE
      OUR BABIES. The dream of a future free of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome is
      a gift we can give our children. Thank you for helping make that dream
      come true.
      Do not hesitate to telephone us on our toll-free hotline
      (1-800-221-7437) if you have further questions.
    
  
