
  
    
      
        Background
        With the publication of the Antihypertensive and
        Lipid-Lowering Treatment to prevent Heart Attack Trial
        (ALLHAT), the role of peripheral alpha-1 antagonists in the
        treatment of hypertension has become controversial. The
        doxazosin arm of ALLHAT was stopped early, due to a
        doubling of the incidence of congestive heart failure in
        this group, as compared to the low-dose chlorthalidone arm
        [ 1 ] . Prior to this publication, there had been no
        obvious suggestion of a mechanism by which peripheral
        alpha-1 antagonists in general or doxazosin in particular
        would be inferior to chlorthalidone or would specifically
        cause CHF. Because ALLHAT is an active-control trial, no
        inferences can be made on whether this increased incidence
        of CHF results from a harmful effect of doxazosin, a
        beneficial effect of chlorthalidone, or both. Nonetheless,
        there has been a large body of literature dedicated to the
        positive effects of peripheral alpha-1 antagonists on
        surrogate endpoints such as cholesterol levels and
        tolerability. In light of the results of ALLHAT, we
        performed a review of the literature on doxazosin,
        terazosin, and prazosin.
      
      
        Methods
        Medline and the Cochrane databases were used to identify
        English-language papers on peripheral alpha-1 antagonists
        in studies targeting cardiovascular endpoints, background
        physiologic literature, or any studies suggesting
        mechanisms leading to an inferior performance in
        cardiovascular endpoints. Medline was searched from 1966 to
        the present with the key words "doxazosin," "prazosin,"
        "terazosin," "adrenergic alpha-antagonists," or "alpha
        blocker." The search was then limited to clinical trials
        that had "hypertension" as a key word. Studies were
        included in our review if they addressed either one or a
        combination of the three agents as the main focus in the
        context of hypertension therapy and if they in some way
        addressed the outcomes of interest noted above. Relevant
        data from these studies are reported descriptively. Other
        relevant references were acquired from bibliographic
        searches.
      
      
        Results
        
          Use in Hypertension and Prostatism
          Evidence suggests that alpha-1 antagonists are
          frequently prescribed for hypertension, but there are few
          published data concerning the prevalence of the routine
          use of peripheral alpha-1 antagonists, the prevalence
          according to co-morbid conditions such as benign
          prostatic hypertrophy and the usual duration of therapy.
          In the sixth report of the Joint National Committee on
          Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High
          Blood Pressure (JNC VI), peripheral alpha-1 antagonists
          are recommended not only as second-line anti-hypertensive
          therapy after low-dose diuretics and beta blockers, but
          also for specific indications such as therapy in men with
          hypertension and prostatism [ 2 ] . Alpha-1 antagonists
          represent effective therapy for prostatism, and fifty
          percent of men have histologic evidence of BPH by 60
          years of age [ 3 4 ] . The National Ambulatory Medical
          Care Survey reported that the number of people on any
          type of peripheral alpha-1 antagonist in 1995 was
          approximately 6 to 7% of those with hypertension [ 5 ] .
          About 80% of surveyed physicians would choose these drugs
          as a first-line blood pressure agent for patients with
          hypertension and symptoms of BPH [ 6 ] .
        
        
          Weight and Fluid Status
          Peripheral alpha-1 antagonists were consistently
          associated with fluid retention. A 1984 study of prazosin
          reported by Bauer revealed increases in plasma volume,
          interstitial fluid volume, and extracellular fluid volume
          following both short-term and long-term therapy [ 7 ] .
          In this study of 14 hypertensive men, there was a
          significant 1.4 L average increase in ECFV, with a 200 mL
          average increase in plasma volume (measured with
          radioisotopic assays) that occurred within 3-6 weeks of
          initiation, lasted during 5 to 6 months of chronic
          therapy, and was still present during a two-week washout
          period. There was no weight change in that study, but two
          other studies demonstrated both an increase in weight as
          well as laboratory changes consistent with volume
          expansion for prazosin [ 8 9 ] . Bauer and his colleagues
          suggested that a net increase in total body sodium from
          an acute renal effect of prazosin was offset by a
          decrease in actual body weight. They also demonstrated
          that the fractional excretion of sodium was unchanged
          during treatment, and further suggested that the acute
          changes were followed by chronic sodium homeostasis and
          maintenance of the increased total body sodium.
          The VA Cooperative Study on Antihypertensive agents
          was a double-blind, randomized controlled trial comparing
          atenolol, captopril, clonidine, diltiazem,
          hydrochlorothiazide, prazosin, and placebo for
          differences in antihypertensive efficacy in 1,105 men who
          had mild diastolic hypertension [ 10 ] . A highly
          significant weight gain of 1 kilogram was observed at 8
          weeks with prazosin compared to baseline (p < .001),
          and this gain was also statistically significant when
          compared to the 8-week weight changes in all other groups
          that had experienced either weight loss or no mean weight
          change (p < 0.05). The prazosin arm had the highest
          rate of adverse effects, leading to discontinuation of
          treatment. The termination rate of 13.8% was higher than
          the termination rate from adverse effects for clonidine
          (10.1%), and significantly higher than the rates for
          captopril (4.8%), atenolol (2.2%), or hydrochlorothiazide
          (1.1%) [ 11 ] . The number of men treated with prazosin
          decreased from 62 at the beginning of the trial to 28 by
          the end. The average weight gain of 0.5 kilograms from
          baseline was no longer statistically significant at one
          year of therapy when compared to the original baseline
          weight or the other therapies.
          Safety and tolerability trials with terazosin have
          shown similar results (Table 1). Patients treated with
          terazosin tended to gain about 1 kilogram from baseline
          on active therapy during these trials, and those on
          placebo therapy lost weight. Two of the randomized trials
          included a phase for withdrawal from active therapy, with
          weight information reported by Ruoff [ 12 ] . Withdrawal
          from active therapy was associated with a loss of 1.3
          kilograms.
          Doxazosin has also been associated with volume
          expansion. A physiology study reported by Lund-Johansen
          demonstrated a plasma volume fluid expansion of about 10%
          when compared to baseline values [ 13 ] . Larger
          randomized controlled trials have also consistently
          demonstrated that patients treated with doxazosin gain
          weight, as summarized in Table 2. While patients treated
          with doxazosin tend to gain weight, patients on placebo
          therapy lost weight. The Treatment of Mild Hypertension
          Study (TOMHS) trial is a notable exception for the trend
          towards weight gain [ 14 ] . All five treatment groups
          and the placebo group received intensive dietary
          counseling aimed at weight loss, and all groups lost
          weight without significant differences between trial
          arms.
        
        
          Neurohormonal and Cellular Effects
          Physiologic studies with small numbers of participants
          are by nature underpowered to detect meaningful
          population differences, but may provide a starting point
          when such data are not available. Peripheral alpha-1
          antagonists were associated with perturbations in
          neurohormonal levels in various studies. In particular,
          peripheral alpha-1 antagonists are associated with an
          increase in plasma norepinephrine in diverse patient
          populations, as summarized in Table 3. This table
          reflects increases in norepinephrine in normotensive
          patients, hypertensive patients, and patients with
          chronic congestive heart failure from a variety of these
          small studies.
          Several lines of evidence suggest that elevated
          catecholamine levels are cardiotoxic [ 15 ] . Elevated
          plasma norepinephrine levels are hypothesized to cause
          direct myocardial damage through many mechanisms, which
          may be amplified by concomitant alpha-1 blockade. In
          rats, norepinephrine stimulates apoptosis, which is
          mediated through beta receptors [ 16 ] . In addition,
          alpha-1 cardiac receptors inhibit this response in rat
          myocytes [ 17 ] . The increased concentration of
          norepinephrine leading to cardiac beta receptor
          stimulation combined with alpha-1 receptor inhibition may
          lead to increased apoptosis in myocytes.
          Other hormones that are associated with cardiovascular
          disease are affected by peripheral alpha-1 antagonists.
          Endothelin-1 is a vascular hormone, which may play a role
          in the generation and maintenance of heart failure [ 18 ]
          . In hypertensive patients, doxazosin lowers von
          Willebrand factor commensurate with blood pressure, but
          it does not lower high levels of endothelin-1 while
          atenolol does [ 19 ] .
          Other mechanisms for cellular injury have been
          suggested. Hooper proposed that peripheral alpha-1
          antagonists alter cellular repair mechanisms, possibly
          causing cardiac damage. He noted that prazosin blocks
          heat shock protein expression in myocardium, and it has
          been hypothesized that this may leave myocardium more
          vulnerable to injury [ 20 ] .
        
        
          Epidemiological and Clinical Trial Data
          Between 1966 and 2001, there were 188 published
          cardiovascular randomized controlled trials related to
          the treatment of hypertension with the use of peripheral
          alpha-1 antagonists. Among these, only ALLHAT
          specifically assessed differences in cardiovascular
          endpoints resulting from control of hypertension with a
          peripheral alpha-1 antagonist. Most of these trials
          focused on surrogate endpoints such as equivalence of
          blood-pressure reduction and effects on cholesterol.
          Other studies focused on tolerability and pharmacology.
          There are no case control, cohort, or other studies that
          analyzed the impact of these agents on cardiovascular
          endpoints. Using data from other trials may offer a
          partial framework for the interpretation of newer
          findings.
          ALLHAT demonstrated a highly statistically
          significant, near doubling in the incidence of heart
          failure in the doxazosin arm compared to heart failure
          occurrences in the chlorthalidone arm. Although there was
          no difference in the primary outcome of CHD or the
          secondary outcome of total mortality, there were small
          but statistically significant increases in the secondary
          outcomes of angina (RR 1.16, 95% CI 1.05-1.27) and stroke
          (RR 1.19, 95% CI 1.01-1.40). Since ALLHAT is a
          comparative trial, we know that doxazosin is associated
          with more adverse cardiovascular outcomes than low-dose
          chlorthalidone, but we do not know how doxazosin might
          compare with placebo. The SHEP trial, however, does
          provide a comparison between chlorthalidone and placebo
          therapy for a reference point of heart failure, although
          the study populations have different demographic and
          blood pressure distributions [ 21 ] . The SHEP trial
          included 4,736 people aged 60 and older who had a
          systolic blood pressure of 160 to 219 mmHg and a
          diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mmHg. Subjects
          were randomized to low-dose diuretics or placebo, and
          were followed for an average of 4.5 years for major CV
          events. Comparisons between those randomized to active
          therapy and those on placebo demonstrated nearly a 50%
          reduction in fatal and nonfatal heart failure events (RR
          0.51, 95% CI 0.37-0.71). The rates of CHF in SHEP
          participants treated with diuretics and placebo were 5
          and 10 per 1,000 person-years, respectively. In
          comparison, the rates of CHF in ALLHAT participants
          treated with diuretics and doxazosin were 10 and 20 per
          1,000 person-years, respectively. If low-dose
          chlorthalidone has a similar risk reduction in the ALLHAT
          population, and halves the incidence of clinical heart
          failure events compared to no therapy, the effect of
          doxazosin would be comparable to that of the placebo arm
          in the SHEP trial.
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        The report of the doxazosin arm termination in ALLHAT
        was published in April, 2000. At that time, the results of
        the ALLHAT trial were unexpected, given the potential
        association between high dose diuretics and the risk of
        sudden death [ 22 ] , and the favorable effect of
        peripheral alpha-1 antagonists on lipid profiles [ 14 ] .
        Comparing data from other studies suggests the possibility
        that the beneficial effects of peripheral alpha-1
        antagonists for lowering blood pressure may be nullified by
        a negative effect, or that other antihypertensives have
        positive actions beyond their antihypertensive effects.
        Those treated with doxazosin in ALLHAT had a mean blood
        pressure that was 2 to 3 mmHg higher than the mean blood
        pressure of those treated with chlorthalidone. Based on
        Framingham Heart Study logistic regression coefficients,
        this 2 to 3 mmHg difference in systolic blood pressure is
        associated with an increased relative risk of only 1.06 to
        1.09 [ 23 ] . From available data, it appears that this
        average difference in systolic blood pressure is not large
        enough to double the average incidence of CHF.
        The literature suggests several mechanisms by which
        peripheral alpha-1 antagonists in general and doxazosin in
        particular might prove inferior to other types of
        antihypertensive therapy. They are associated with a mild
        volume expansion, which may precipitate the clinical
        presentation of heart failure in those with subclinical
        disease. If this is the mechanism responsible for
        increasing the incidence of CHF in the ALLHAT trial, it
        would be consistent with the early divergence of the
        Kaplan-Meier curves in that study.
        Peripheral alpha-1 antagonists also cause neurohormonal
        changes during chronic therapy. The long-term ramifications
        of these changes for patients being treated for
        hypertension are not known. These drugs appear to cause
        increases in norepinephrine, and this increase may nullify
        the beneficial effect of lowered blood pressure on the
        occurrence of CHF. Not only are increased plasma
        catecholamines a central feature in heart failure, they are
        now a recommended target for effective life-prolonging
        therapy [ 24 25 26 ] .
        Given that doxazosin is not as effective as
        chlorthalidone in reducing the cardiovascular complications
        of hypertension, several questions remain. There is still a
        paucity of information regarding the absolute risk
        reduction for clinical heart failure or other
        cardiovascular events afforded by peripheral alpha-1
        antagonists in a variety of populations. Differentiation of
        the mechanism for reduced protection compared to diuretics
        would be interesting but difficult to accomplish. For heart
        failure in particular, the increase in symptomatic episodes
        of CHF may be due to hemodynamic effects of doxazosin
        unmasking incipient heart failure, direct myocardial
        injury, or both. Chronic volume loading may not only unmask
        subclinical ventricular dysfunction, but may possibly
        contribute to worsening ventricular function over time.
        Whatever mechanisms were responsible for the heart
        failure findings in ALLHAT, the results support the current
        national recommendations to use low-dose diuretics or
        beta-blockers as first line agents for the pharmacologic
        treatment of uncomplicated hypertension.
      
      
        Competing Interests
        Dr. Psaty was a Merck/SER Clinical Epidemiology Fellow
        (co-sponsored by the Merck Co. Foundation, Rahway, NJ, and
        the Society for Epidemiologic Research, Baltimore, MD), and
        a member of the Events Committee of the HERS trial funded
        by Wyeth Ay erst.
      
    
  
