
  
    
      
        Background
        Whole-genome expression profiling exemplified by the
        development of DNA microarrays represents a major advance
        in genome-wide functional analysis [ 1 2 ] . In a single
        assay, the transcriptional response of each gene to a
        change in cellular state can be measured, whether it is a
        viral infection, host cell cycle changes, chemical
        treatment, or genetic perturbation. Specifically,
        systematic approaches for identifying the biological
        functions of cellular genes altered during these changes,
        such as HIV-1 infection, are needed to ensure rapid
        progress in defining significant host and viral genome
        sequences in directed experimentation and applications.
        Therefore, host cellular states can be inferred from the
        expression profiles, and the notion that the global
        transcriptional response constitutes a detailed molecular
        phenotype, such as class discovery, class prediction, drug
        target validation, and the classification of tumors by
        expression profiling has begun to receive considerable
        attention [ 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 ] .
        Since its discovery, much of the mainstream human
        immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat research has
        focused on its ability to activate the HIV-1 LTR. However,
        to date, besides the transactivation activity on the HIV-1
        promoter, few other effects exerted by HIV-1 Tat on
        cellular and viral genes has also been observed. The Tat
        protein has been shown to transcriptionally repress host
        cellular genes and be involved in the immunosuppression
        associated with viral infection. For instance, HIV-1
        infection is able to down-regulate major histocompatibility
        complex type I (MHC-I) by various different viral proteins,
        including Tat which represses the transcription of MHC-I,
        Vpu which retains nascent MHC-I chains in the endoplasmic
        reticulum, and Nef which can mediate selective
        internalization of MHC-I molecules from the plasma
        membrane. MHC class I gene expression has also been shown
        to be reduced upon infection with the wild-type LAI virus
        or a Tat exon one recombinant virus [ 12 13 ] .
        Tat has been shown to down-regulate mannose receptor,
        EDF-1, CD3-gamma, and TCR/CD3 surface receptor [ 14 ] . Tat
        reduces mannose receptor levels and promoter activity in
        mature macrophages and dendritic cells by interfering with
        the host transcriptional machinery; resulting in decreased
        levels of surface mannose receptor needed for Ag
        (mannosylated albumin uptake) or pathogen capture
        (Pneumocystis carinii phagocytosis), and eventual delivery
        to MHC class II-containing intracellular compartments [ 15
        ] . EDF-1, a gene down-regulated when endothelial cells are
        induced to differentiate 
        in vitro , was shown to be
        down-regulated by Tat at the transcriptional level,
        resulting in the inhibition of endothelial cell growth and
        in the transition from a nonpolar cobblestone phenotype to
        a polar fibroblast-like phenotype [ 16 ] .
        When examining the 
        in vivo effects of HIV-1 Tat protein
        in the 
        Xenopus embryo, it was found that
        upon injection of synthetic Tat mRNA into zygotes, a marked
        delay in gastrulation occurred. This led to the altered
        specification of the anterior-posterior axis and partial
        loss of the anterior embryo structures. Mechanistically,
        HIV-1 Tat elicited a general suppression of gene
        expression, including that of 
        Xbra and 
        gsc , two early genes whose
        expression are required for proper gastrulation [ 17 ]
        .
        In relation to the cell cycle, Tat has also been shown
        to bind to p53 and inhibit the transcription of p53
        responsive elements, such as the p21/Waf1 gene promoter.
        Consequently, upon introduction of stress signals (e.g.,
        gamma irradiation), HIV-1-infected cells lose their G1/S
        checkpoint, enter the S-phase inappropriately, and apoptose
        [ 18 19 20 ] . Finally, the inhibition of Tat on
        translational machinery has also been noted. The potential
        translational inhibitory effects of the TAR RNA region is
        mediated by the activation of p68 (the interferon-induced
        68-kilodalton protein kinase) kinase, which was
        down-regulated by Tat during productive HIV-1 infection [
        22 ] .
        Although the mechanism of the host cellular
        down-regulation remains largely unknown, few reports have
        attempted to decipher the mechanism of the observed
        inhibition. For instance, the addition of Tat to PC12 cells
        up-regulated the expression of the inducible cAMP early
        repressor (ICER), a specific member of the cAMP-responsive
        element modulator transcription factor family, in a
        cAMP-dependent manner. In turn, ICER overexpression
        abrogated the transcriptional activity of the TH promoter,
        strongly suggesting ICER's involvement in Tat-mediated
        inhibition of gene expression [ 23 ] .
        Aside from induction of ICER, Tat is capable of forming
        complex (es) with a component of TFIID, TAF 
        II 250 [ 24 ] and Tip60 [ 25 ] both of
        which contain histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity. In
        these cases, Tat-TAF 
        II 250 and Tat-Tip60 do not affect the
        transcription from the HIV-1 LTR, but interfere with the
        transcription activity of cellular genes. It is postulated
        that different targets of HATs by Tat have different
        consequences. The interaction of Tat with p300/CBP and
        P/CAF stimulates its ability to transactivate LTR-dependent
        transcription, while Tat-TAF 
        II 250 or Tat-Tip60 interactions control
        the transcription of cellular genes.
        Here to better understand the host response to Tat, we
        have performed microarray experiments on HIV-1 infected
        cells expressing the Tat protein. To our surprise many host
        cellular genes were down-regulated when comparing HIV-1
        infected latent cells to uninfected parental cells. Because
        most, if not all, latent infected cells available to date
        (e.g., ACH2, U1, J1.1, OM.10) have various expression
        levels of doubly spliced viral mRNAs, including Tat, Rev,
        Nef, Vpr, and other accessory proteins, we decided to
        perform the microarray in a system where Tat was
        constitutively expressed; asking whether Tat by itself, or
        in the absence of other accessory proteins, could still
        down-regulate host cellular genes. Consistent with latently
        infected cells, we found many cellular genes to be
        down-regulated in Tat expressing lymphocytes. The
        down-regulation is most apparent on cellular receptors that
        have intrinsic receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) activity and
        signal transduction members that mediate RTK function;
        including the Ras-Raf-MEK pathway, and co-activators such
        as p300/CBP and SRC-1, which mediate gene expression
        related to hormone receptor genes. Interestingly, we also
        observed up-regulation of S-phase genes, as well as
        ribosomal genes involved in translation. Functionally,
        down-regulation of receptors may allow latent HIV-1
        infected cells to either hide from the immune system or
        avoid extracellular differentiation signals normally
        regulated by receptors. Up-regulation of S-phase and
        translation genes may allow speeding of cells through the
        S-phase and subsequent accumulation at the G2 phase, where
        most of the cellular and viral translation may take place.
        Therefore, the presence of Tat may not only control
        activated transcription on HIV-1 LTR, but also aid in the
        subsequent translation of viral mRNA in the cytoplasm.
      
      
        Results and discussion
        
          Receptor family members
          It has long been known that infection by HIV-1
          commonly leads to the down-regulation and the
          disappearance of CD4 receptors from the plasma membrane,
          a phenomenon referred to as receptor down-modulation.
          This, in turn, renders cells refractory to subsequent
          infection by the same or other viruses that use the CD4
          receptor for entry; thus creating a state of
          super-infection immunity. Results in Table 1indicate that
          although few receptor genes were up-regulated, most of
          the cellular receptors in general, were down-regulated in
          the presence of the Tat protein. Most of these receptors
          or membranous proteins were initially discovered from
          immune or neuronal cells, hence they were given names
          related to the immune or nervous system. For instance,
          mRNA for the neuropeptide Y-like receptor (Acc# X71635),
          which was up-regulated in Tat expressing cells, was
          initially discovered as a G-protein coupled neuropeptide
          Y receptor, and later found to be homologous to the
          co-receptor CCR5 needed for HIV-1 infection of
          monocyte/macrophage cells. Therefore, most of the
          receptors listed in Table 1may in fact be expressed in
          various tissues and have multiple functions.
          Consistent with our microarray results on CCR5
          up-regulation, experiments performed in peripheral blood
          mononuclear cells (PBMCs) with soluble Tat has shown
          selective entry and replication of CCR5 virus into cells
          [ 27 28 ] . Up-regulation of HIV-1 coreceptor by Tat has
          also been reported, where a synthetic Tat protein that
          was immobilized on a solid substrate, up-regulated the
          surface expression of the chemokine receptors in purified
          populations of primary resting CD4+ T cells. Also, a
          similar result was seen from Tat protein actively
          released by HIV-1 infected cells, implying a potentially
          important role for extracellular Tat in rendering the
          bystander CD4+ T cells more susceptible to infection [ 28
          ] .
          We therefore tested whether H9/Tat cells, which showed
          an increase in CCR5 expression, could in fact allow
          better entry and infection of the CCR5 (R5) virus into
          cells. Figure 3Ashows the result of such an experiment,
          where H9/Tat cells allowed a better replication profile
          of the R5 than the CXCR4 (X4) virus. The increase in
          viral titer peaked after some 18 days of infection with
          the R5 virus, further implying that the CCR5 co-receptor
          allowed a better selection of R5 virus in Tat expressing
          cells.
          Another example of co-receptors with multiple
          functions is the leukotriene family member B4, which was
          down-regulated in Tat expressing cells (Acc# D89078,
          Table 1). The cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLT), LTC, LTD,
          and LTE, were first shown to be essential mediators in
          asthma [ 29 ] . However, when the mouse leukotriene B4
          receptor (m-BLTR) gene, was cloned it was shown to have
          significant sequence homology with chemokine receptors
          (CCR5 and CXCR4), co-receptors for many different HIV-1
          clades [ 30 ] . Along the same lines, when cells were
          infected with 10 primary clinical isolates of HIV-1,
          leukotriene B4 receptor was primarily utilized for
          efficient entry into cells which were mainly of the
          syncytium-inducing phenotype [ 31 ] . Therefore,
          up-regulation of neuropeptide Y-like receptor and
          down-regulation of leukotriene B4 receptor in Tat
          expressing cells indicates a selective advantage of one
          class of virus (CCR5) over another (CXCR4).
          Other examples of consistency between our microarray
          results on receptors and the HIV-1 Tat literature,
          include the down-regulation of gene expression in uPAR
          (Acc# X74039), IP3 (Acc# D26070, D26351), Glu R flop
          (Acc# U10302), PPAR (Acc# L07592), alpha-2 macroglobulin
          receptor protein (Acc# M63959), and receptor tyrosine
          kinase (Acc# L36645, U66406) genes.
          The transmembranous urokinase-type plasminogen
          activator receptor (uPAR; CD87) focuses the formation of
          active plasmin at the cell surface, thus enhancing
          directional extracellular proteolysis. Interestingly, the
          promoter activity of the CD87 gene was shown to decline
          after infection [ 32 ] , implying that post integration
          of HIV-1 may in fact down-regulate CD87 gene expression.
          Similarly, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R)
          are intracellular calcium release channels involved in
          diverse signaling pathways and are required for the
          activation of T lymphocytes [ 33 ] . Tat (also implicated
          as a neurotoxin) has been shown to release calcium from
          inositol 1,4, 5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor-regulated
          stores in neurons and astrocytes causing premature
          apoptosis [ 34 ] . Down-regulation of IP3 may therefore
          contribute to viral latency and maintenance of an
          anti-apoptotic state in cells.
          HIV-1 infection can cause extensive neuronal loss and
          clinically, a severe dementia. The cause of the
          neurotoxicity remains unclear as neurons are not
          infected, but the disturbance of glutamate-linked calcium
          entry has been implicated. It has been shown that
          HIV-infected brain has a decrease of mRNA and protein of
          the GluR-A flop subtype of
          alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid
          (AMPA) glutamate receptor in cerebellar Purkinje cells.
          The observed disturbance of AMPA receptors may contribute
          to the neurotoxic process in other vulnerable brain
          regions and clinically to the development of dementia [
          35 ] . Interestingly, in a mouse model AMPA receptors in
          the cortex, striatum, hippocampus, and cerebellum
          declined by 29-50% as early as 8 weeks post-retroviral
          inoculation. Thus, the reduction in AMPA receptor density
          may contribute to the development of the cognitive
          abnormalities associated with HIV-1 infection [ 36 ]
          .
          Finally, patients with AIDS who are receiving therapy
          with HIV-1 protease inhibitors have been reported to be
          afflicted with a syndrome characterized by lipodystrophy
          (fat redistribution favoring the accumulation of
          abdominal and cervical adipose tissue), hyperlipidemia,
          and insulin resistance. Potential mechanisms for altered
          adipocyte function include, direct binding to PPARgamma
          or inhibition of transcription of PPARgamma promoter [ 37
          ] . The lipodystrophy syndrome may be a result of the
          inhibition of 2 proteins involved in lipid metabolism
          that have significant homology to the catalytic site of
          HIV proteases; namely cytoplasmic retinoic acid binding
          protein type 1 and low density
          lipoprotein-receptor-related protein [ 38 ] . An
          additional mechanism of PPAR down-regulation may be
          related to Tat expression in latent cells.
        
        
          Translation associated factors
          Viruses have evolved a remarkable variety of
          strategies to modulate the host cell translation
          apparatus with the aim of optimizing viral mRNA
          translation and replication. For instance, viruses
          including Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) have been
          known to induce severe alterations of the host
          translational apparatus, including the up-regulation of
          ribosomal proteins and the progressive association of
          several nonribosomal proteins, such as VP19C, VP26, and
          the poly(A)-binding protein 1 (PAB1P) to ribosomes [ 39 ]
          . In the case of HIV-1, approximately one infectious
          HIV-1 genome in an infected cell could be transcribed and
          translated into 50,000 to 100,000 physical particles [ 40
          ] . This poses an immense challenge for the virus to be
          able to transcribe, splice, transport, and translate its
          RNA into fully packaged virions in a timely fashion.
          Therefore, it would be advantageous for the virus to set
          the stage for each successive step necessary for viral
          progeny formation. One such event is Tat's ability to
          control genes that aid in translational machinery. As
          seen in Table 2, many of the critical components of a
          functional ribosome, including large subunits L 3, 6, 26,
          31, 38, and 41, as well as S 6, 12, 20, and 24, and many
          of the translation initiation factors are up-regulated by
          Tat. This would imply that Tat up-regulates many
          ribosomal genes that may be necessary to produce
          functional ribosomes needed for viral mRNA translation.
          Therefore, interfering with translation could provide a
          new strategy for anti-HIV treatment. Along these lines,
          when the aminogylcosides (kanamycin, hygromycin B,
          paromycin and neomycin) due to their ability to inhibit
          protein synthesis by affecting ribosomal fidelity, or
          puromycin because of its competing ability with tRNAs for
          binding on the large ribosomal subunit, or cycloheximide
          which inhibit the large ribosomal subunit by preventing
          ribosomal movement along the mRNA, were used in active
          HIV-1 infection, it was found that both cycloheximide and
          puromycin produced the greatest decrease in HIV-1
          inhibition, presumably by inhibiting the large subunit of
          the ribosome [ 41 ] .
          Translation of HIV-1 RNAs pose a challenge since they
          all contain a TAR sequence at their 5' end. The
          Tat-responsive region (TAR) of HIV-1 exhibits a
          trans-inhibitory effect on translation by activating the
          interferon-induced 68-kilodalton protein kinase.
          Productive infection by HIV-1 has been shown to result in
          a significant decrease in the amount of cellular p68
          kinase. The steady-state amount of p68 kinase was found
          to be reduced in cells stably expressing Tat. Thus, the
          potential translational inhibitory effects of the TAR RNA
          region, mediated by activation of p68 kinase, may be
          down-regulated by Tat during activation of the latent
          virus [ 22 ] . Along these lines, a Tat peptide
          antagonist, which bound specifically to TAR RNA and
          competed with Tat for binding, reduced Tat-dependent
          translation [ 42 ] .
          Finally, upregulation of translation genes in Tat
          expressing cells is specially intriguing in light of the
          recent discovery of internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs)
          in HIV-1 gag ORF [ 43 ] . IRESs are thought to promote
          initiation of translation by directly binding to
          ribosomes, in a manner independent of the mRNA cap or of
          scanning through upstream sequences. Since, the TAR is
          located at the 5' end of all HIV-1 RNA transcripts and
          the presence of secondary structure at or near the 5' end
          of RNAs reduces the accessibility of the 5' cap to eIF4F,
          it is thought that this feature of HIV-1 mRNAs can
          inhibit their cap-dependent translation [ 44 45 46 ] .
          Therefore, a possible function of the HIV-1 gag IRES
          might be to serve as a mechanism to bypass the structural
          barriers to cap-dependent translation by recruiting
          ribosomes easily and directly to the gag ORFs. IRES
          entirely contained within a translated ORF has been shown
          in the MMLV gag [ 47 ] , and host mRNA encoding p110
          PITSLREand p58 PITSLRE [ 48 ] . Along these lines,
          cap-dependent translation may be cell cycle regulated,
          especially when cells are arrested at the G2 phase of the
          cell cycle, where the cap-dependent translation of most
          cellular host cell mRNAs is inhibited [ 49 50 51 ] .
        
        
          Modulation of signal transduction pathway
          Results in Table 3indicate that many seemingly
          different pathways are being regulated by Tat. However,
          the signal transduction pathway, MAPK, has been shown to
          control and be upstream of DNA-replication,
          transcription, and cell cycle pathways [ 52 53 54 ] . The
          mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway,
          consisting of the MAP kinase kinases (MKKs) 1 and 2, and
          extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) 1 and 2,
          which have been implicated in diverse cellular processes
          including proliferation, transformation, and cell
          differentiation [ 53 ] . The MAP kinase (MAPK) pathway
          has emerged as a crucial route between membrane-bound Ras
          and the nucleus. This MAPK pathway encompasses a cascade
          of phosphorylation events involving three key kinases,
          namely Raf, MEK (MAP kinase kinase) and ERK (MAP kinase).
          The MAPK pathway controls ERKs 1 and 2, c-Jun N-terminal
          kinase (JNK), and p38. These signaling pathways in turn,
          activate a variety of transcription factors including
          NF-kappaB (p50/p65), AP-1 (c-Fos/c-Jun), and CREB
          phosphorylation, which in turn coordinate the induction
          of many genes encoding inflammatory mediators.
          Cytokine receptors such as IL-3, GM-CSF, and the
          interferons transmit their regulatory signals primarily
          by the receptor-associated Jak family of tyrosine
          kinases, and activate STAT transcription factors.
          Activated STAT5 proteins are detected in reduced levels
          in lymphocytes recovered from HIV-infected patients and
          immunocompromised mice. Both of these types of receptor
          signaling pathways have recently been shown to interact
          with serine/threonine kinases such as MAP kinases. A
          common intermediate pathway initiating from receptors to
          the nucleus is the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK (MAPK) cascade, which
          can result in the phosphorylation and activation of
          additional downstream kinases and transcription factors
          such as p90Rsk, CREB, Elk, and Egr-1 [ 55 56 ] .
          Therefore, it is intriguing that Tat expressing cells
          show down-regulation of MAPK components (Table 3, Figure
          3Band 3C), essential mediators between receptors and
          nuclear transcription factors. This would imply that
          latently infected cells that express Tat (doubly spliced
          RNA) and not the whole virus (all three classes of the
          RNA), can control signal transduction related to membrane
          and transcriptional signaling (Figure 6).
          Interestingly, Tat, through the RGD motif, which
          controls integrin-based cell signaling, has been reported
          to mediate the activity of phosphotyrosine
          phosphatase(s). This in turn which would lead to a
          decrease in the levels of phosphotyrosine-containing
          proteins such as ERK-2/p42MAPK kinases [ 57 ] .
          Cysteine-rich and basic Tat peptides have been shown to
          inhibit VEGF-induced ERK activation and mitogenesis.
          These peptides also inhibited proliferation,
          angiogenesis, and ERK activation induced by basic
          fibroblast growth factor with similar potency and
          efficacy [ 58 ] . Consistent with this model, it has been
          shown that treatment of neural cells with culture
          supernatants from HAART-treated subjects, which
          presumably contain extracellular Tat, resulted in
          down-regulation of the JNK, AKT, and ERK kinases [ 59 ]
          .
          Finally, activation of MAPKs has been shown to
          activate the singly spliced and unspliced (genomic)
          latent HIV-1 virus. For instance, the signal transduction
          pathways that regulate the switch from latent to
          productive infection have been linked to MAPK. The
          induction of latent HIV-1 expression has been shown to be
          inhibited by PD98059 and U0126, specific inhibitors of
          MAPK activation. The MAPK acts by stimulating AP-1 and a
          subsequent physical and functional interaction of AP-1
          with NF-κB, resulting in a complex that synergistically
          transactivates the HIV-1 [ 60 ] . At the level of
          infection and entry, the activation of MAPK through the
          Ras/Raf/MEK (MAPK kinase) signaling pathway enhances the
          infectivity of HIV-1 virions. Virus infectivity can be
          enhanced by treatment of cells with MAPK stimulators,
          such as serum and phorbol myristate acetate, as well as
          by coexpression of constitutively activated Ras, Raf, or
          MEK in the absence of extracellular stimulation [ 61 ] .
          Also, following infection, efficient disengagement of the
          reverse transcription complex from the cell membrane and
          subsequent nuclear translocation, requires
          phosphorylation of the reverse transcription complex
          components by ERK/MAPK; demonstrating a critical
          regulation of an early step in HIV-1 infection by the
          host cell MAPK signal transduction pathway [ 62 ] .
          Therefore, Tat down-regulation of the MAPK pathway in
          latent cells implies that much of the host signal
          transductions connected to activation are down-regulated,
          and at the same time, these cells may be refractory to
          subsequent infection by other viruses.
        
        
          Thymosin family members, and cell cycle
          Prothymosin α (ProTα) belongs to the α-Thymosin family
          which comprises different polypeptides widely distributed
          within animal tissues. Although its role has remained
          controversial, it is involved in the increase of
          immediate early genes such as c-myc [ 63 ] , which is
          upstream of cyclin D synthesis and necessary for cell
          division [ 64 ] . In humans, ProTα is coded by a gene
          family of six members. One of them contains introns,
          exons and classic regulatory signals, while the remaining
          five are intronless genes [ 59 ] located on chromosome 2
          [ 66 ] . There are two mRNA transcripts, which arise in a
          ratio of 9:1 (shorter/longer form), where only the long
          transcript is regulated by extracellular signals.
          It has been demonstrated that malignant tissues with
          accelerated cell cycle show higher levels of ProTα
          expression than normal or surrounding healthy tissues [
          67 ] . ProTα was shown as a marker for breast cancer [ 68
          ] , hepatocarcinoma [ 69 ] , and plasma levels of its
          derivative Tα 
          1 been proposed as a marker for the
          prognosis of lung cancer [ 70 ] . In ligand blotting
          assays, ProTα bound only to chromatin pools and nuclear
          fractions where histone H1 was present [ 71 72 ] . The
          analysis of the interaction of ProTα with H1-containing
          chromatin suggests a putative role for ProTα in the
          fine-tuning of the stoichiometry and/or mode of
          interaction of H1 with chromatin [ 73 ] . Interestingly,
          HL-60 cells overexpressing ProTα show an enhancement of
          accessibility of micrococcal nuclease to chromatin,
          implying relaxed chromatin structure for enhanced cell
          cycle gene expression [ 74 ] .
          A broad study using several mononuclear and
          fibroblastic cell lines has shown that ProTα mRNA
          accumulation is cell cycle phase-dependent. In the U937
          monocytic cell line, ProTα mRNA peaked at the end of S/G2
          phase and fell towards the entry into the new G1 phase.
          More prominent mRNA regulation was found in the
          fibroblastic cell lines CV1 and NIH3T3, with peak mRNA
          levels at the end of S-phase. In all cases the expression
          pattern coincided with that of cyclin B and Cdc2/cyclin B
          activation [ 75 ] .
          It is interesting to note that Cdc2 (Acc# X05360),
          Cdc10 homolog (Acc# S72008), and Cdc37 (Acc# U43077) were
          all up-regulated in Tat expressing cells. Cdc2, a
          catalytic subunit of cyclin-dependent kinases, is
          required for both the G1-to-S and G2-to-M transitions. In
          the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, the
          execution of Start requires the activity of the Cdc2
          protein kinase and the Cdc10/Sct1 transcription complex.
          The loss of any of these genes leads to G1 arrest [ 69 ]
          .
          Cdc37 encodes a 50-kDa protein that targets
          intrinsically unstable oncoprotein kinases including
          Cdk4, Raf-1, and v-src to the molecular chaperone Hsp90,
          an interaction that is thought to be important for the
          establishment of signaling pathways. Cdc37 expression may
          not only be required to support proliferation in cells
          that are developmentally programmed to proliferate, but
          may also be required in cells that are inappropriately
          induced to initiate proliferation by oncogenes. For
          instance, MMTV-Cdc37 transgenic mice develop mammary
          gland tumors at a rate comparable to that observed
          previously in MMTV-cyclin D1 mice, indicating that Cdc37
          can function as an oncogene in mice and suggests that the
          establishment of protein kinase pathways mediated by
          Cdc37-Hsp90 can be a rate-limiting event in
          transformation [ 76 ] . Also, analysis of proteins that
          co-immunoprecipitated with Cdk6 and Cdk4 has shown
          complexes containing both Hsp90 and Cdc37 [ 77 78 79 ]
          .
          Cdc37 also promotes the production of Cak1. Cak1 in
          yeast is the human homolog of CAK trimeric enzyme
          containing CDK7, cyclin H, and MAT1. Both human and yeast
          Caks function as RNA polymerase II CTD kinase, Cdk
          activating kinase, and DNA damage/repair enzymes. Cdc37,
          like its higher eukaryotic homologs, promotes the
          physical integrity of multiple protein kinases, perhaps
          by virtue of a cotranslational role in protein folding [
          80 ] . Finally, Hsp90/Cdc37 has recently been shown in
          the stabilization/folding of Cdk9 as well as the assembly
          of an active Cdk9/cyclin T1 complex responsible for
          P-TEFb-mediated Tat transactivation [ 81 ] .
        
        
          Transcription and chromatin remodeling
          factors
          A highly ordered chromatin structure presents a
          physical obstacle for gene transcription; presumably by
          limiting the access of transcription factors and RNA
          polymerase II core machinery to target DNA [ 82 83 ] . In
          concert with the observation that corepressors are
          associated with HDAC activities [ 84 85 ] , it appears
          that the transcriptional outcome of nuclear receptors is
          determined by the balance of histone acetylation and
          deacetylation activities, and that ligands serve as a
          switch to recruit HATs with the concomitant dismissal of
          HDACs. Signal transduction pathways add another layer of
          regulation to the functions of CBP/p300. In the case of
          the POU homeodomain factor Pit-1, transcriptional
          activity is potentiated by MAPK pathways [ 86 ] .
          Therefore, down-regulation of MAPK pathway members in Tat
          expressing cells, as seen in Table 3, is consistent with
          decreased phosphorylation of DNA binding factors such as
          Pit-1, and overall lower DNA binding activity. Here, we
          describe the effect of coactivator proteins SRC-1 (Acc#
          AJ000882, U90661, Table 1) and p300 (Acc# U01877, Table
          3), and their relation to differentiation genes such as
          retinoic acid receptor (RAR/PML, Acc#: X06614, Table 1),
          and Leptin receptor variant (Acc#: U66496, Table 1); all
          of which are down-regulated in Tat expressing cells
          (Figure 5).
          Over the past three decades a great deal of evidence
          has accumulated in favor of the hypothesis that steroid
          receptor hormones act via regulation of gene expression.
          The action is mediated by specific nuclear receptor
          proteins, which belong to a superfamily of
          ligand-modulated transcription factors that regulate
          homeostasis, reproduction, development, and
          differentiation [ 87 ] . This family includes receptors
          for steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, hormonal forms of
          vitamin A and D, peroxisomal activators, and ecdysone [
          88 ] . Nuclear hormone receptors are ligand-dependent
          transcription factors that regulate genes critical to
          such biological processes as development, reproduction,
          and homeostasis. Interestingly, these receptors can
          function as molecular switches, alternating between
          states of transcriptional repression and activation,
          depending on the absence or presence of a cognate
          hormone, respectively. In the absence of cognate hormone,
          several nuclear receptors actively repress transcription
          of target genes via interactions with the nuclear
          receptor corepressors SMRT and NCoR. Upon binding of the
          hormone, these corepressors dissociate from the DNA-bound
          receptor, which subsequently recruits a nuclear receptor
          coactivator (NCoA) complex. Prominent among these
          coactivators is the SRC (steroid receptor coactivator)
          family, which consists of SRC-1, TIF2/GRIP1, and
          RAC3/ACTR/pCIP/AIB-1. These cofactors interact with
          nuclear receptors in a ligand-dependent manner and
          enhance transcriptional activation via histone
          acetylation/methylation and recruitment of additional
          cofactors such as CBP/p300 [ 89 ] . CBP/p300 has been
          implicated in the functions of a large number of
          regulated transcription factors based primarily on
          physical interaction and the ability to potentiate
          transcription when overexpressed [ 90 ] . In the case of
          nuclear receptors, the interaction with CBP/p300 is
          ligand-dependent and relies on the conserved nuclear
          receptor functional domain, AF-2 (activation function 2).
          
          In vivo studies have supported the
          conclusion that CBP/p300 are components of the
          hormonal-regulation of transcription in fibroblasts
          isolated from a p300-/- mouse; and loss of the p300 gene
          severely affects retinoic acid (RA)-dependent
          transcription [ 91 ] . In a separate study using
          hammerhead ribozymes that specifically cleave CBP or p300
          mRNA, Kawasaki et al [ 92 ] reported that reduced
          cellular CBP or p300 levels resulted in compromised
          expression of endogenous RA-inducible genes such as
          p21/Waf1 and p27 cdk inhibitors. Along this line, Tat
          expressing cells have lower levels of p21/Waf1 presumably
          due to inactivation of p53 and a lack of p300/RA- induced
          gene expression. Consistent with this interpretation, CBP
          and p300 harbor transcriptional activation of
          ligand-induced RA or ER function on a chromatinized
          template [ 93 ] .
          The NcoA family members constitute SRC-1/NcoA-1 [ 89 ]
          , TIF2/GRIP1/NcoA-2, [ 94 95 ] and pCIP/ACTR/AIB1 [ 96 97
          98 ] proteins, which interact with liganded RA receptor
          (RAR), and CBP/p300. Overexpression of these NCoA factors
          enhances ligand-induced transactivation of several
          nuclear receptors [ 99 ] . A weak intrinsic HAT activity
          has been reported in SRC-1/NCoA-1 and pCIP/ACTR/AIB1,
          suggesting that chromatin remodeling may also be a
          function of these NCoA factors [ 99 100 ] ; although they
          do not appear to contain regions homologous to the HAT
          domains of CBP/p300 or p/CAF. Structure-function analysis
          of the NCoAs have revealed multiple copies of a signature
          motif, LXXLL, with conserved spacing that is required for
          interaction with nuclear receptors and CBP/p300 [ 99 101
          ] . Intriguingly, different LXXLL motifs are required for
          PPARγ (Peroxisome Proliferator activated receptor γ, a
          gene down-regulated in Tat expressing cells; Acc# L07592,
          Table 1) function in response to different classes of
          ligands, suggesting distinct configuration of assembled
          complexes.
          Taken together, through the use of microarray
          technology, we have described one of the first
          observations about how Tat is able to control various
          host cellular machineries. Although our data is
          consistent with most of the cited literature on the
          effects of Tat in infected host and uninfected bystander
          cells, we caution that the transcriptional profiling in
          chronically infected cells such as ACH2 or H9/Tat cells
          may not necessarily be representative of the pattern of
          expression observed in most cells infected by other group
          M, N, or O HIV-1 isolates.
          We recently extended our observations by utilizing
          other HIV-1 infected cells which normally express Tat
          (U1), and addition of exogenous purified Tat to
          uninfected PBMCs. Preliminary results using western blots
          supports the idea that genes which were altered in H9/Tat
          system also showed a similar level of change in few of
          the tested genes (Figure 3C). This notion of consistency
          was further confirmed using the IL-8 activation by Tat.
          Interleukin-8 (IL-8) belongs to the CXC chemokine family
          and is secreted by several different cell types,
          including monocytes, neutrophils, endothelial cells,
          fibroblasts, and T lymphocytes. IL-8 production (induced
          by several stimuli, including IL-1, TNF-, and phorbol
          myristate acetate) is primarily regulated at the
          transcriptional level. IL-8 is a potent chemotactic
          factor for granulocytes and T lymphocytes, and is found
          in HIV-infected individuals. The CXC chemokine IL-8 does
          not bind to CCR5. It has previously been shown that IL-8
          mRNA induction was seen less then 1 h after Tat (72aa)
          stimulation, and levels remained elevated for up to 24 h,
          leading to IL-8 protein production [ 102 ] . Along these
          lines, we have previously shown that the IL-8 gene is
          expressed in a cell cycle-dependent manner in cells that
          express the Tat protein, and the induction is during the
          S phase of the cell cycle and regulated by stable NF-kB
          binding to the IL-8 promoter [ 103 ] . When looking for
          IL-8 at the G1/S border, we found that all Tat containing
          cells, including PBMCs that were treated with exogenous
          Tat showed an up-regulation of IL-8 in the supernatant
          (Figure 4), further implying that results obtained from
          the H9/Tat system may infact be of general physiological
          relevance in vivo.
          Finally, throughout the current study we came across
          some technical findings that were critical in the
          confirmation of most of our results. For instance, few
          genes did not correlate in their activation or
          suppression levels when comparing fold changes between
          microarrays and protein levels using western blot
          analysis. We suspect this is because many genes that are
          transcribed may not necessarily be translated, due to
          their cell cycle stage, 5' stem and loop RNA structures,
          varying half-lives of proteins and mRNAs, and a host of
          other unknown variables. Also, specific changes that
          occur in a cell may not be required in redundant pathways
          that score for a specific function. This is commonly seen
          in the differences between HIV-1 infected or Tat
          expressing 
          in vitro cell lines and AIDS
          patients PBMC samples. Therefore, other microarrays would
          have to be performed on purified infected PBMCs to
          confirm most of the changes observed in Tables 1, 2, and
          3. Unfortunately, to date this particular issue is not
          feasibly addressable, since it is not possible to isolate
          a homogenous population of infected T- or Monocytic cells
          from AIDS patients. Also, confirmatory tests for protein
          expression would have to be done with both hydrophilic
          and hydrophobic extraction buffers. For instance, we have
          observed that PCNA protein, which is up-regulated in Tat
          expressing cells, extract best with hydrophobic buffers
          from the nucleus, presumably due to its binding to DNA
          replication machinery (data not shown). Future
          experiments will address issues related to differences
          between various HIV-1 Tat clades, host expression levels
          between T- and Monocytic cells, and its effect at various
          stages of the cell cycle.
        
      
      
        Conclusions
        Expression profiling from HIV-1 or Tat expressing cells
        holds great promise for rapid functional analysis. Here, we
        have described the effect of Tat and its alterations with
        the host cellular gene expression. We observed that more
        than 2/3 of the cellular genes tested were down-regulated
        by Tat. These genes belong to receptor, co-receptor, and
        co-activator pathways that are part of serine/threonine
        receptor tyrosine kinase, Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK (MAPK) cascade,
        which control proliferative and/or differentiation signals.
        We also observed a great deal of increase in the host cell
        translation apparatus with the possible aim of optimizing
        viral mRNA translation prior to viral maturation and
        release. Therefore, HIV-1 accessory doubly spliced messages
        such as Tat, may control the host gene expression in
        latently infected cells, and determine not only viral
        transcription, but also the fate of post-transcriptional
        events.
      
      
        Materials and method
        
          Cell culture
          ACH 
          2 cells are HIV-1 infected CD4
          lymphocytic cells, with an integrated wild-type
          single-copy chromatinized DNA. The CEM T cell (12D7) is
          the parental cell for ACH 
          2 cells. ACH2 cell lines has a single
          copy of LAI strain proviral sequence. The TAR has a point
          mutation at (C37 -> T), which no longer responds
          (efficiently) to Tat. However, the cell line is fully
          capable of making infectious virus in presence of TNF,
          PHA, PMA, and a host of other stimuli. H9 and H9/Tat
          cells are both CD4+ Lymphocytic cells, where H9 cells
          carry a control integrated vector without the Tat open
          reading frame, and H9/Tat cells carry integrated Tat
          expression vector. Both cell lines were a generous gift
          of George Pavlakis (NCI, NIH). U1 is a monocytic clone
          harboring two copies of the viral genome from parental
          U973 cells. All cells were cultured at 37°C up to 10
          5cells per ml in RPMI-1640 media, containing 10% Fetal
          Bovine Serum (FBS) treated with a mixture of 1%
          streptomycin and penicillin antibiotics, and 1%
          L-glutamine (Gibco/BRL). Phytohemagglutinin-activated
          PBMC were kept in culture for 2 days prior to addition of
          Tat protein. Isolation and treatment of PBMC were
          performed by following the guidelines of the Centers for
          Disease Control. Approximately 5 × 10 6PBMC were used for
          treatment of wild type and K41A Tat mutant (100 ng/ml)
          proteins. After an initial incubation for one hr with Tat
          proteins, cells were washed and cultured in complete
          media for 24 hrs, prior to western blots. pCEP4, eTat
          cells were HeLa cells stably transfected with either a
          backbone control plasmid (pCEP4; Invitrogen) or a plasmid
          expressing Tat (1-86) with a C-terminal epitope tag
          (eTat) [ 103 ] . HeLa cell lines containing either the
          control or eTat plasmid were selected by single-cell
          dilution. Both cell types were selected and maintained
          under 200 μg of hygromycin per ml. Verification of Tat
          transcriptional activity was achieved by electroporation
          of reporter plasmids as previously described [ 103 ]
          .
        
        
          Cell cycle analysis
          Hela cells were blocked with hydroxyurea (Hu) (2 mM)
          for 14 h. Following the block, cells were released by
          being washed twice with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)
          and by the addition of complete medium. All suspension
          cells were treated with 1% serum for 48 hrs prior to
          addition of Hu. Supernatants were collected and analyzed
          by an IL-8 ELISA according to the manufacturer's
          instructions (Biosource International). For controls,
          each sample, approximately 1 × 10 6cells was processed
          for cell sorting. Cells were washed with PBS and fixed by
          addition of 500 μl of 70% ethanol. For
          fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis,
          cells were stained with a cocktail of propidium iodide
          (PI) buffer (PBS with Ca2+ and Mg2+, RNase A [10 μg/ml],
          NP-40 [0.1%], and PI [50 μg/ml]) followed by cell-sorting
          analysis. FACS data acquired were analyzed by ModFit LT
          software (Verity Software House, Inc.).
        
        
          Cell extract preparation and immunoblotting
          All cells were cultured to mid-log phase of growth,
          washed with PBS without Ca 2+and Mg 2+, and lysed in a
          buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 120 mM NaCl, 5
          mM EDTA, 50 mM NaF, 0.2 mM Na 
          3 VO 
          4 , 1 mM DTT, 0.5% NP-40 and protease
          inhibitors (Protease inhibitor cocktail tablets,
          Boehringer Mannheim, one tablet per 50 ml). The lysate
          was incubated on ice for 15 min, and microcentrifuged at
          4°C for 10 min. Total cellular protein was separated on
          4-20% Tris-glycine gels (Novex, Inc.) and transferred to
          a polvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes (Immobilon-P
          transfer membranes; Millipore Corp.) overnight at 0.08 A.
          Following the transfer, blots were blocked with 5%
          non-fat dry milk in 50 ml of TNE 50 (100 mM Tris-Cl [pH
          8.0], 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA) plus 0.1% NP-40. Membranes
          were probed with a 1:200-1:1000 dilution of antibodies at
          4°C overnight, followed by three washes with TNE 50 plus
          0.1% NP-40. All antibodies used in this study were
          purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology. The next day,
          blots were incubated with 10 ml of 125I-protein G
          (Amersham, 50 μl/10 ml solution) in TNE 50 plus 0.1%
          NP-40 for 2 hrs at 4°C. Finally, blots were washed twice
          in TNE 50 plus 0.1% NP-40 and placed on a PhosphorImager
          cassette for further analysis.
        
        
          Total RNA purification
          Cells were grown to mid-log phase of growth (5.0 × 10
          6), pelleted, and washed twice with cold D-PBS without Ca
          2+/Mg 2+. Total RNA was extracted on ice using Trizol
          Reagent (Life Technologies, Inc.). Purified RNA was then
          analyzed on a 1% agarose gel for quality and quantity
          prior to each experiment.
        
        
          Glass slide microarray
          Gene expression analysis was performed using
          Micromax™: Human cDNA Microarray System I (cat# MPS101,
          NEN Life Science Products). On a glass microarray slide,
          2400 know human genes were arrayed into 4 separate grids
          (A, B, C, D), containing 600 genes each (gene description
          and location on microarrays available at NEN website:
          www.nenlifesci.com). All human genes were ~2200 bp cDNAs,
          and were characterized from 50+ human cDNA libraries
          (AlphaGene, Inc., Woburn, MA). In addition to the human
          genes, three plant control genes were spotted on each
          grid and were utilized to balance the Cyanine-3 (Cy-3)
          and Cyanine-5 (Cy-5) fluorescence signals.
          A total of 8 μg each of H9 (control sample) and H9/Tat
          (test sample) mRNAs were reverse transcribed into Biotin
          and Dinitrophenyl (DNP) labeled cDNA, respectively. After
          cDNA quality and quantities were analyzed, both cDNAs
          were then pooled and simultaneously hybridized overnight
          at 65°C onto the glass microarray. The next day, the
          microarray slide was serially washed in 0.5× SSC (Sodium
          Citrate-Sodium Chloride) + 0.01% SDS (Sodium Dodecyl
          Sulfate), 0.06× SSC + 0.01% SDS, and 0.06× SSC. Next, the
          Tyramide Signal Amplification (TSA™) was then used to
          amplify the Cy-3 and Cy-5 signals using antibody-enzyme
          conjugates, α-DNP-Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and
          α-Streptavidin-HRP with Tyramide linked Cy-3 and Cy-5.
          Screening and data analysis was performed by NEN.
        
        
          cDNA filter hybridization
          Gene expression of CEM and ACH2 were performed using
          Atlas Human cDNA Expression Array (Clontech Laboratories
          Inc., Palo Alto, CA) according to the manufacturer's
          directions. One μg of poly A +RNA each was DNase I
          treated, purified using a CHROMA SPIN-200 column, and
          reverse transcribed into 32P-labeled cDNA. The CHROMA
          SPIN-200 column was used to purify the 32P-labeled cDNA
          from unincorporated 32P-labeled dNTPs and small (<0.1
          kb) cDNA fragments. Each sample was then hybridized to a
          human cDNA expression array overnight with continuous
          agitation at 68°C. The next day, the array was washed
          three times with gentle agitation, first wash with 2× SSC
          + 1% SDS and the last two washes with 0.1× SSC + 0.5% SDS
          at 37°C. Array was exposed to a PhosphorImager Cassette
          and analyzed using ImageQuant software.
        
        
          Northern blots
          Total cellular RNA was extracted using the RNAzol
          reagent (Gibco/BRL). Total RNA (20 μg) was isolated from
          various cells and ran on a 1% formaldehyde-agarose gel
          overnight at 75 V, transferred onto a 0.2 μm
          nitrocellulose membrane (Millipore Inc.), UV
          cross-linked, and hybridized overnight at 42°C with
          32P-end-labeled 40 mer oligo probes including p21/Waf1,
          C-myc, Pro-thymosin, Actin, Tat, and Ubiquitin
          (Loftstrand, Gaithersburg, Md.). Next day, membranes were
          washed two times for 15 min each, with 10 ml of 0.2%
          SDS-2XSSC at 37°C, exposed, and counted on PhosphorImager
          Cassette.
        
        
          Viral infection and ELISA assay
          Both H9 and H9/Tat cells were infected in the presence
          of 10 ug of polybrene. For PBMC infections, PHA activated
          PBMCs were kept in culture for 2 days prior to each
          infection. Isolation and treatment of PBMCs were
          performed by following guidelines from the CDC
          (Isolation, culture, and identification of HIV,
          Procedural Guide, July 1991, Atlanta, GA). Approximately
          2 × 10 6of H9 or H9/Tat cells, and 5 × 10 6PBMC cells
          were infected with either an HXB-2 (CXCR4, T-tropic), or
          BaL (CCR5, Macrophage-tropic) at 5 ng of p24 gag antigen/
          HIV-1 strain. Both viral isolates were obtained from the
          NIH AIDS research and reference reagent program. After 8
          hrs of infection, cells were washed and fresh media was
          added. Samples were collected every 3 rdday and stored at
          -20 C for p24 gag ELISA. Media from HIV-1 infected cells
          were centrifuged to pellet the cells and supernatants
          were collected, and diluted to 1:100 to 1:1000 in RPMI
          1640 prior to ELISA. The p24 gag antigen level was
          analyzed by HIVAG™-1 Monoclonal antibody Kit (Abbott
          Laboratories, Diagnostics Division).
        
      
      
        Authors' Contributions
        CF, and FS carried out the ACH2 and H9/Tat microarrays.
        LD, CE, IZ, CGL, and KW aided in westerns, northerns, p24
        and ELISA assays. AM, KK, SB, AP, and FK aided in data
        interpretation, Bioinformatics, literature searches and
        writing the manuscript.
      
    
  
