
  
    
      
        Background
        During the last decade several genes have been found to
        be interrupted by selfish genetic elements translated in
        frame with their host proteins. During post translational
        processing these elements excise themselves out of the host
        protein (see [ 1 ] and [ 2 ] for recent reviews). The
        sequences removed during splicing are called inteins (short
        for internal protein); the portions of the host protein are
        termed exteins (external protein) [ 3 4 5 ] .
        Inteins facilitate their excision out of the host
        protein without the help of any known host specific
        activity. This phenomenon, called protein splicing, was
        first discovered about a decade ago in the 
        Saccharomyces cerevisiae V-ATPase
        catalytic subunit A [ 6 7 ] . Intein excision depends on
        the splicing domain of the intein and the first amino acid
        residue of the C-extein [ 8 ] . The inteins known to date
        are between 134 and 608 amino acids long, and they have
        been reported from all three domains of life: eukaryotes,
        eubacteria and archaea. Pietrokovski's webpage on inteins
        http://blocks.fhcrc.org/~pietro/inteins/currently lists
        more than 100 inteins in 34 different types of proteins [ 9
        ] . The host proteins are diverse in function, including
        metabolic enzymes, DNA and RNA polymerases, gyrases,
        proteases, ribonucleotide reductases, and vacuolar and
        archaeal type ATPases. Common features suggested for these
        proteins are their expression during DNA replication [ 1 ]
        and their low substitution rate during evolution [ 9 ]
        .
        Most reported inteins are composed of two domains: one
        is responsible for protein splicing, and the other has
        endonuclease activity [ 10 11 12 13 ] . The function of the
        endonuclease is to spread the intein to intein-free
        homologs of the host protein. During this process, called
        homing, the gene encoding the intein-free homolog is
        cleaved by the endonuclease at or close to the intein
        integration site. During the repair of the cleaved gene,
        the intein is copied to the previously intein-free homolog.
        Gimble and Thorner [ 14 ] demonstrated intein homing in 
        Saccharomyces cerevisiae using
        engineered V-ATPase genes from which the intein encoding
        portion had been previously removed. However, some inteins
        lack the endonuclease domain. Inteins without this domain
        perform autocatalytic splicing [ 15 16 ] . Homing
        endonucleases and the process of homing have been more
        intensively studied in self splicing introns [ 17 ] , and
        the process is assumed to be similar for inteins.
        
        Thermoplasma acidophilum is among
        sixteen archaea for which inteins have been reported to
        date (Intein database
        http://www.neb.com/inteins/int_reg.html [ 18 ] ). Members
        of the genus 
        Thermoplasma lack cell walls and
        possess a cytoskeleton. They live in hot and acidic
        environments, and are often found adhering to sulfur
        particles [ 19 ] . 
        T. acidophilum grows optimally at
        59°C and at an external pH between 1-2 [ 20 ] . A
        cytoplasmic pH of 5.5 has been measured indirectly [ 21 ]
        .
        Proton pumping ATPases/ATPsynthases are found in all
        groups of present day organisms [ 22 ] . The typical
        archaeal ATPsynthase is homologous to the eukaryotic
        vacuolar ATPase. Because of the high degree of sequence
        similarity the archaeal ATP synthase (A-type ATPase) is
        sometimes labeled as vacuolar or V-type ATPase. The
        archaeal and the vacuolar ATPase are both homologous to the
        bacterial F-ATPases, but the level of sequence similarity
        with the F-ATPases is much lower than between the V- and
        the A-ATPases. To date seven species have been identified
        to harbor inteins in their ATPase catalytic subunits. The
        first intein was discovered in the 
        vma -1 gene of 
        Saccharomyces [ 7 ] . The yeast 
        Candida tropicalis [ 23 ] possesses
        an intein in the same location. Inteins are also present in
        the A subunit of the A-type ATPases of 
        Thermoplasma acidophilum, T. volcanium,
        Pyrococcus abysii, P. horikoshii and 
        P. furiosus. 
        Here we present data on the cloning and expression of
        the 
        T. acidophilum A-ATPase A subunit in 
        E. coli, and we discuss implications
        for the location, propagation and distribution of inteins
        among organisms.
      
      
        Results
        
          Sequence analysis of the T.
          acidophilumintein
          The 
          T. acidophilum intein was
          discovered while sequencing the catalytic subunit of the
          archaeal ATPase/ATPsynthase from 
          T. acidophilum for systematic
          purposes [ 24 ] . More recently, the complete genome
          sequences of 
          T. acidophilum [ 25 ] and 
          T. volcanii [ 26 ] have been
          reported. In both instances, the catalytic subunit of the
          ATPsynthase is the only gene in the entire genome for
          which an intein was reported. Using PSI-BLAST [ 27 ] with
          different inteins as seeds, divergent inteins with less
          than ten percent sequence identity as compared to the
          query sequence are recovered (data not shown); however,
          using this approach we did not discover any additional
          intein or homing endonuclease encoding genes in 
          T. acidophilum. 
          Multiple sequence alignments of diverse intein
          sequences identified eight motifs composed of moderately
          conserved residues [ 18 28 ] . The A-ATPase A subunit of
          the 
          Thermoplasma and 
          Pyrococcus intein multiple sequence
          alignment (with manual modification) is shown in figure
          1. The 
          T. acidophilum intein (173 amino
          acids long) is among the shortest inteins known, and the
          alignment with other inteins reveals the absence of
          sequences homologous to the typical endonuclease motifs.
          Only the motifs characteristic for the self splicing
          domain are present in the 
          Thermoplasma intein (see figure
          1).
          The significance of the match between the 
          T. acidophilum and the three
          pyrococcal ATPase inteins was assessed using PRSS at
          http://fasta.bioch.virginia.edu/fasta/prss.htm [ 29 ] .
          The P-value for this match, i.e. the probability of
          obtaining a match of this quality by chance alone, was
          calculated to be below 10 -10. This indicates that not
          only the exteins, but also the inteins themselves are
          recognizably homologous. In contrast, a sequence
          alignment of all known inteins shows intein sequences to
          be much more divergent (not shown). For example, the
          P-value for the comparison between the 
          T. acidophilum and the 
          Saccharomyces cerevisiae intein was
          0.28, i.e. no significant similarity between the yeast
          and the 
          Thermoplasma inteins was detectable
          using pairwise alignments only.
        
        
          Location of the intein within the host
          protein
          The vacuolar and the archaeal ATPases are homologous
          to the bacterial and organellar F-type ATPases. The
          structure of the bovine mitochondrial F 
          1 -ATPase has been determined by X-ray
          crystallography [ 30 ] . The intein insertion points in
          the yeasts' V-ATPase and the 
          Thermoplasma and 
          Pyrococcus A-ATPases correspond to
          the catalytic site where the ATP binds and is hydrolyzed
          during the catalytic cycle. Figure 2shows that the
          inteins are located in the regions of these very
          conserved proteins [ 22 ] that have the lowest
          substitution rates.
        
        
          Comparison of A-ATPase catalytic subunit and 16S
          rRNA phylogeny
          The phylogenies of archaeal ATPase catalytic subunits
          and small subunit ribosomal RNAs are shown in Figure 3.
          Both phylogenies were calculated for a similar set of
          species. While the two phylogenies show some significant
          differences, neither of them groups the molecules from 
          Thermoplasma with the 
          Pyrococcus homologs. In both
          phylogenies several other Archaea, i.e., 
          M. jannaschii, M. thermolithotrophicus,
          Thermococcus sp., Halobacterium sp.,
          Methanosarcina and 
          Methanobacterium
          thermoautotrophicus branch off between the two groups
          that carry inteins in their ATPase catalytic subunits.
          All of these intervening archaeal ATPases do not carry an
          intein.
        
        
          Codon usage comparison
          Codon usage varies among organisms. The production of
          tRNAs corresponds to the frequencies with which the
          different codons are present in their protein coding
          genes. The exact causes for tRNA regulation and codon
          usage are not completely understood; however, expression
          of foreign genes in an organism is often prevented by a
          different codon usage of the foreign gene [ 31 ] . Many
          Archaea have codon usage frequencies and tRNA
          compositions different from 
          E. coli. The 
          T. acidophilum A-ATPase A subunit
          has 763 codons. Codon AUA (Ile) is the most frequent
          (39/1000). In 
          E. coli the same codon (AUA) is a
          rare codon present at a frequency of only 5.5 per 1000.
          The other two major differences in codon usage between
          the 
          T. acidophilum A-ATPase A subunit
          and 
          E. coli are AGG (Arg) and AGA (Arg)
          which are present in 
          T. acidophilum A-ATPase A subunit
          at frequencies of 41 and 16 per 1000 respectively. In 
          E. coli however, these codons are
          considered rare and occur with frequencies of 1.7 and 2.8
          per 1000 respectively.
        
        
          Expression and intein splicing of T.
          acidophilumA-ATPase A subunit
          The gene encoding the 
          T. acidophilum A-ATPase A subunit
          was cloned into the expression vector pET-11a
          (Stratagene) and transformed into 
          E. coli Bl21(DE3) and 
          E. coli Bl21-CodonPlus(DE3)-RIL
          strain for protein expression. When 
          E. coli Bl21(DE3), a strain that
          did not express additional rare tRNAs, was transformed
          with the cloned 
          T. acidophilum ATPase A subunit, no
          additional protein bands were observed in extracts of
          induced cells (not shown). However, the 
          E. coli Bl21-CodonPlus (DE3)-RIL
          strain transformed with the same plasmid expresses two
          additional proteins of 20 and 65 kDalton upon induction
          (Fig. 4). No additional band at 85 kDa, indicative of an
          unprocessed intein, was visible after induction. This
          demonstrates that autocatalytic splicing occurred
          efficiently in 
          E. coli. Efficient autocatalytic
          splicing was also observed when the 
          E. coli were grown and induced at
          42°C, or when the 
          E. coli were induced at 16°C for 16
          hours (Fig. 4A). During preparation for SDS gel
          electrophoreses the samples are heated to 72°C in the
          presence of DTT. With respect to temperature these
          conditions are more similar to the conditions in the 
          T. acidophilum cytoplasm than the
          conditions in 
          E. coli. Intein excision might
          occur only during this high temperature treatment.
          Therefore, proteins from induced 
          E. coli were also separated under
          non-denaturing conditions with or without addition of
          DTT. The induced bands were excised from the
          non-denaturating gel and separated using denaturing SDS
          gel electrophoresis (Fig. 5). Both of the slower
          migrating bands visible after induction (A and B in Fig.
          5), revealed only one major band corresponding to the
          spliced and religated A-subunit upon separation in an SDS
          denaturing gel. Presumably the slower migrating band was
          a dimer or higher aggregate of the A-subunit monomer. In
          none of these experiments did we find any indications for
          unprocessed or incompletely spliced inteins.
        
      
      
        Discussion
        The 
        Daucus carota [ 32 ] and 
        Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Alireza
        Senejani unpublished) catalytic V-ATPase subunits form
        inclusion bodies when expressed in 
        E. coli. In contrast, the 
        T. acidophilum subunit is expressed
        as a soluble protein in the 
        E. coli cytoplasm. Despite the
        chemical and physical differences between the 
        E. coli cytoplasm and the environment
        in which the 
        T. acidophilum intein is functioning 
        in vivo, we found no indications that
        self-splicing of the intein was inefficient in 
        E. coli. Even when 
        E. coli was grown at lower
        temperatures, processing of the intein and religation of
        the exteins appeared 100% efficient. Complete processing
        was also observed when the 
        E. coli proteins were separated in
        non-denaturing and non-reducing gels. Autocatalytic
        splicing of the 
        T. acidophilum A-ATPase catalytic
        subunit occurs efficiently in the 
        E. coli cytoplasm. The 
        T. acidophilum A-ATPase intein
        appears to splice out efficiently at very different pHs
        (7.2 versus 5.5 [ 21 33 ] ) and temperatures (16 to 37°
        versus 55°C [ 20 ] ).
        The 
        T. acidophilum intein shows
        significant sequence similarity to the inteins found in the
        A-ATPase catalytic subunits of 
        Pyrococcus. Moreover, these inteins
        are inserted into the same highly conserved sequence in the
        ATP binding site. This indicates that the inteins in 
        Thermoplasma and 
        Pyrococcus are homologous in the
        evolutionary sense, 
        i.e., they are derived from a common
        ancestral gene. However, 
        Pyrococcus and 
        Thermoplasma are not considered
        closely related Archaea. Based on their 16S rRNA they are
        considered distantly related Euryarchaeotes (See Fig.
        3b).
        One explanation for the discrepancy between phylogenetic
        classification and distribution of the A-ATPase intein is
        horizontal gene transfer: the intein was not present in the
        last common ancestor of 
        Thermoplasma and 
        Pyrococcus, rather the intein invaded
        one of the lineages after their split and was more recently
        horizontally transferred to the other lineage. The
        horizontal transfer scenario is more parsimonious than the
        assumption of presence in the shared common ancestor
        because the latter requires several independently occurring
        losses of the intein together with its long-term
        persistence in the 
        Pyrococcus and 
        Thermoplasma lineages ( 
        cf. Fig. 3b). Horizontal transfer of
        whole genes and operons between divergent species is a
        frequent event [ 34 35 36 37 ] . Even house keeping genes
        are transferred between divergent species [ 37 ] .
        Two possibilities exist for the horizontal transfer
        scenario. Either the whole A-ATPase catalytic subunits was
        transferred, or the intein alone spread as a selfish
        genetic element. To discriminate between these two
        scenarios, we constructed the phylogeny of the host protein
        (Fig. 3a). The resulting phylogeny is in reasonable
        agreement with the ribosomal rRNA phylogeny, the main
        exception being the placement of 
        Desulfurococcus. According to its 16S
        rRNA this organisms is clearly classified as a
        Crenarcheote; however, its ATPase catalytic subunit groups
        with 
        Thermococcus sp. The finding that the
        host protein itself does not group the genus 
        Thermoplasma with the 
        Pyrococci suggests that the intein
        alone was transferred between 
        Thermoplasma and 
        Pyrococcus, and that the sequence
        similarity between the 
        Thermoplasma and 
        Pyrococcus catalytic subunits was
        sufficient to allow homing into the same insertion
        site.
        The dispersion of the intein as a selfish genetic
        element is consistent with the work of Goddard and Burt [
        38 ] on the persistence of an intron with homing
        endonuclease in yeast mitochondria. These authors studied
        the distribution of empty target sites, and introns with
        and without a functioning endonuclease gene among different
        yeasts. They concluded that the long term persistence of
        the intron depends on a cycle that begins with invasion of
        the empty target site by an intron with the help of a
        homing endonuclease encoded by an open reading frame within
        the intron. However, once the intron containing allele is
        fixed in the population, the endonuclease, which itself had
        been the reason for the rapid spread of the intron in the
        population, is no longer under selection, the endonuclease
        becomes non-functional and is lost, resulting in an intron
        without homing endonuclease activity. However, once the
        endonuclease is lost the intron containing allele becomes
        more likely to be replaced with an allele that has lost the
        intron altogether and the cycle of invasion and successive
        loss begins anew.
        The process of intein homing is likely to depend on a
        similar cycle; however, the time intervals for loss of the
        intein are likely to be longer than the loss of the intron.
        The A-ATPase and the V-ATPase inteins are located in the
        most conserved part of the host gene. Any deletion of the
        intein from the gene itself needs to be precise, because
        any alteration of the amino acid sequence in the catalytic
        site is likely to result in a non-functioning enzyme.
        Comparative sequence analysis (Fig. 1) shows that the 
        T. acidophilum and 
        T. volcanium inteins do not contain
        an endonuclease domain. Our search of the genomes of these
        Archaea did not identify any endonucleases that might
        function in homing. While the failure to identify a homing
        endonuclease is not proof of absence, the presence of a
        homing endonuclease acting in trans would be unprecedented
        and has to be regarded as improbable. The cyclic reinvasion
        model for long term persistence of a selfish genetic
        element through homing [ 38 ] suggests that the small 
        Thermoplasma intein evolved through
        reduction from a large endonuclease containing intein
        similar to the one found in the pyrococcal A-ATPase.
        Apparently, the small intein has been persisting in the 
        Thermoplasma A-ATPase since the split
        between 
        T. acidophilum and 
        T. volcanium without the help of a
        homing endonuclease.
        The cyclic reinvasion model also explains why the
        insertion site is in a region of very low substitution
        rates: The high degree of sequence similarity surrounding
        the integration point facilitates the intein transfer
        between different populations and species using the homing
        endonuclease. A more variable sequence surrounding the
        integration point would restrict homing to members of the
        same species, and would thus lower the chances for long
        term survival of the intein.
      
      
        Conclusion
        The small intein in the 
        Thermoplasma A-ATPase is closely
        related to the endonuclease containing intein in the 
        Pyrococcus A-ATPase. Phylogenies
        constructed with the host protein (A-ATPase catalytic
        subunit) and with 16S rRNA do not group these two organisms
        together, suggesting that the A-ATPase intein spread
        through horizontal gene transfer. The small intein has
        persisted in 
        Thermoplasma apparently without
        homing. The 
        T. acidophilum intein retains
        efficient self-splicing activity when expressed in 
        E. coli. This activity does not
        depend on the physicochemical conditions in the 
        T. acidophilum cytoplasm.
      
      
        Materials and Methods
        
          Plasmid constructs
          The 
          T. acidophilum A-ATPase A subunit
          encoding gene was amplified from genomic DNA using
          primers Ta-4 (ATGGATCCTTCTCAACGAAGAGCAGTG) and Ta-5
          (GAGGTGAACATATGGGAAAGATAATCAG). These primers match the
          coding sequence of the 
          Thermoplasma acidophilum A-ATPase A
          subunit (gene identification number 9369337) and
          introduce restriction sites useful in subcloning.
          Initially, the PCR product was cloned into pCR R2.1 (TA
          cloning Vector, Invitrogen). After digestion with 
          Nde I and 
          BamH I the coding sequence was
          subcloned to the vector pET-11a (Stratagene) for gene
          expression experiments.
        
        
          Protein expression and determination
          
          E. coli Bl21(DE3) and
          Bl21-CodonPlus(DE3)-RIL strain (Stratagene) were used for
          protein expression. If not stated otherwise, transformed 
          E. coli were grown overnight in a
          culture wheel at 37°C in Luria-Bertani broth with
          ampicillin (100 μg/mL). One mL of the broth was used to
          inoculate 10 mL of LB broth containing ampicillin and
          incubated at 37°C (200 rpm). After 2 hours, isopropyl
          thio-β-D-galactoside (IPTG) was added to a final
          concentration of 1 mM to induce gene expression and the
          cultures. Cells were harvested 4 hours after induction by
          centrifugation at 7000 rpm for 10 min and washed with TEP
          buffer (0.1 M Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 0.01 M EDTA and 1 mM
          phenyl methyl sulfonyl fluoride). Cells were resuspended
          in 500 μL of TEP buffer and sonicated with a Braun-Sonic
          U with micro-tip for 4 minutes (0.5 duty cycle; power
          output approximately 120). The disrupted cells were
          centrifuged at 8000 rpm and the pellet was resuspended in
          500 μL of fresh TEP buffer. Both the supernatant and the
          pellet were diluted by adding 6X sample buffer (10% SDS,
          1.2 mg/mL bromphenol blue, 0.6 M DTT, 30% glycerol, .1 M
          Tris/HCl pH 6.8) and heated to 80°C for 15 minutes to
          denature the protein. Five to fifty microliters of this
          preparation were run in a 10% denaturing Tris/Tricine SDS
          polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis system as described by
          Schagger and von Jagow [ 42 ] .
          Non-denatured protein was prepared with the same
          procedure except that SDS was omitted from the buffers
          and that the samples were not heated. Proteins were
          electroeluted from the non-denaturing gel as describe
          here [ 24 ] . Gels were fixed with fixing solution (50%
          methanol, 10% acetic acid) for 15 minutes, followed by
          staining in Coomassie staining solution (20% acetic acid,
          0.025% Coomassie blue G-250) for one hour, followed by
          destaining in destaining solution (5% methanol, 10%
          acetic acid) [ 42 ] .
        
        
          DNA sequencing and cloning
          DNA was sequenced using the ABI PRISM BigDye
          Terminator Cycle Sequencing (PE Applied Biosystems).
          Sequencing gels were ran and processed in the Biotech
          Center (University of Connecticut)
        
        
          Codon usage
          The program Codon Usage Tabulated from GenBank (CUTG)
          at http://www.kazusa.or.jp/codon/ [ 43 ] was used to
          calculate the codon usage of individual genes and
          genomes.
        
        
          Sequence retrieval, alignment and phylogenetic
          reconstruction
          The 
          Pyrococcus furiosus A-ATPase
          sequence was retrieved via blastp from the unfinished
          genome using the web page
          http://combdna.umbi.umd.edu/bags.html. The aligned small
          subunit ribosomal RNA sequences were retrieved from the
          Ribosomal Database Project II http://rdp.cme.msu.edu [ 44
          ] . Francine Perler (New England Biolabs) the curator of
          the intein database
          http://www.neb.com/inteins/int_reg.htmlkindly provided
          the sequences of all known inteins. All the other
          sequences were retrieved from the NCBI databank.
          Sequences were aligned using CLUSTAL X 1.8 [ 45 ] .
          The number of substitutions per site in the aligned data
          set were calculated using a JAVA program written by Olga
          Zhaxybayeva (University of Connecticut). This program
          calculates and plots the number of substitutions in a
          sliding window of 10 aligned positions. The window is
          moved through the alignment one position at a time. For
          positions where less than 50% of the sequences have a
          gap, the average number of substitutions was calculated
          considering the gap as an additional character. Positions
          with gaps in more than 50% of the aligned sequences were
          skipped.
          Phylogenies were reconstructed from amino acid
          sequences aligned using CLUSTAL X 1.8 [ 45 ] . The
          topologies of the depicted trees were calculated using
          neighbor joining as implemented in CLUSTAL X with
          correction for multiple substitutions. Branch lengths and
          their confidence intervals were calculated with
          TREE-PUZZLE 5.0 [ 46 ] using the JTT or the HKY model for
          substitution respectively, and assuming an among site
          rate variation described by a gamma distribution.
          Bootstrap samples were analyzed using parsimony as
          implemented in PAUP* 4.0 beta 8 [ 47 ] treating gaps as
          missing data. Each bootstrapped sample was analyzed using
          10 different starting trees built through random
          addition, tree-branch-reconnection (TBR) branch swapping,
          and considering gaps as missing data. The following
          sequences were used for the 16S rRNA phylogeny (the
          sequences are available under these names from the
          Ribosomal Database Project II http://rdp.cme.msu.edu/:
          Sul.solfa4, Sul.acalda, Ap.pernixl, Mc.thlitho,
          Mc.janrrnA, Mb.tautot2, Pc.furios2, Pc.abyssi, AP000001,
          AB016298, Tpl.acidop, Arg.fulgid p, Hf.volcani,
          Hb.spCh2_2, Hb.salina2, Msr.mazei5, Msr.barke2,
          Dco.mobili.
        
      
    
  
