The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 obligated CF&I
 Steel Corporation and its subsidiaries (CF&I) to make certain annual
 funding contributions to pension plans they sponsored. The required contribution
 for the 1989 plan year totaled some $12.4 million, but CF&I failed
 to make the payment and petitioned the Bankruptcy Court for Chapter 11
 reorganization. The Government filed, inter alia, a proof of claim
 for tax liability arising under §4971(a) of the Internal Revenue Code,
 26 U.S.C. §
 4971(a), which imposes a 10 percent "tax" (of $1.24 million here) on
 any "accumulated funding deficiency" of plans such as CF&I's. The court
 allowed the claim but rejected the Government's argument that the claim
 was entitled to seventh priority as an "excise tax" under §507(a)(7)(E)
 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11
 U.S.C. § 507(a)(7)(E), finding instead that §4971 created
 a penalty that was not in compensation for pecuniary loss. The Bankruptcy
 Court also subordinated the §4971 claim to those of all other general
 unsecured creditors, on the supposed authority of the Bankruptcy Code's
 provision for equitable subordination, 11
 U.S.C. § 510(c), and later approved a reorganization plan for
 CF&I giving lowest priority (and no money) to claims for noncompensatory
 penalties. The District Court and the Tenth Circuit affirmed.
 Held:
 1. The "tax" under §4971(a)
 was not entitled to seventh priority as an "excise tax" under §507(a)(7)(E),
 but instead is, for bankruptcy purposes, a penalty to be dealt with as
 an ordinary, unsecured claim. Pp. 4-13.
 (a) Here and there in the Bankruptcy Code Congress has referred
 to the Internal Revenue Code or other federal statutes to define or explain
 particular terms. It is significant that Congress included no such reference
 in §507(a)(7)(E), even though the Bankruptcy Code provides no definition
 of "excise," "tax," or "excise tax." This absence of any explicit connection
 between §507(a)(7)(E) and §4971 is all the more revealing in
 light of this Court's history of interpretive practice in determining whether
 a "tax" so called in the statute creating it is also a "tax" for the purposes
 of the bankruptcy laws. Pp. 5-6.
 (b) That history reveals that characterizations in the Internal
 Revenue Code are not dispositive in the bankruptcy context. In every case
 in which the Court considered whether a particular exaction called a "tax"
 in the statute creating it was a tax for bankruptcy purposes, the Court
 looked behind the label and rested its answer directly on the operation
 of the provision. See, e.g., United States v. New York,
. Congress has given no statutory indication that
 it intended a different interpretive method for reading terms used in the
 Bankruptcy Act of 1978, see Midlantic Nat. Bank v. New Jersey
 Dept. of Environmental Protectionand the Bankruptcy Code's specific references to the
 Internal Revenue Code indicates that no general cross identity was intended.
 The Government suggests that the plain texts of §4971 and §507(a)(7)(E)
 resolve this case, but this approach is inconsistent with this Court's
 cases, which refused to rely on statutory terminology, and is unavailing
 on its own terms, because the Government disavows any suggestion that the
 use of the words "Excise Taxes" in the title of the chapter covering §4971
 or the word "tax" in §4971(a) is dispositive as to whether §4971(a)
 is a tax for purposes of §507(a)(7)(E). The Government also seeks
 to rely on a statement from the legislative history that all taxes "generally
 considered or expressly treated as excises are covered by" §507(a)(7)(E),
 but §4971 does not call its exaction an excise tax, and the suggestion
 that taxes treated as excises are "excise tax[es]" begs the question whether
 the exaction is a tax to begin with. There is no basis, therefore, for
 avoiding the functional examination that the Court ordinarily employs.
 Pp. 6-10.
 (c) The Court's cases in this area look to whether the purpose
 of an exaction is support of the government or punishment for an unlawful
 act. If the concept of a penalty means anything, it means punishment for
 an unlawful act or omission, and that is what this exaction is. The §4971
 exaction is imposed for violating a separate federal statute requiring
 the funding of pension plans, and thus has an obviously penal character.
 Pp. 11-12.
 (d) The legislative history reflects the statute's punitive character.
 Pp. 12-13.
 2. The subordination of the Government's §4971 claim to those
 of the other general unsecured creditors pursuant to §510(c) was error.
 Categorical reordering of priorities that takes place at the legislative
 level of consideration is beyond the scope of judicial authority to order
 equitable subordination under §510(c). Pp. 13-16.
 53 F. 3d 1155,
 reversed and remanded.
 Souter, J., delivered the opinion
 for a unanimous Court with respect to Part III, the opinion of the Court
 with respect to Parts I, II-A, II-B, and II-C, in which Rehnquist, C. J.,
 and Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined,
 and the opinion of the Court with respect to Part II-D, in which Rehnquist,
 C. J., and Stevens, O'Connor, Kennedy, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined.
 Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part.