Justice Stevens
 announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court
 with respect to Parts I, II, III, V, and VII, and an opinion with respect
 to Parts IV and VI, in which Justice Kennedy, Justice Souter, and Justice
 Ginsburg join.
 Congress enacted the Medical Device Amendments of 1976, in the
 words of the statute's preamble, "to provide for the safety and effectiveness
 of medical devices intended for human use." 90 Stat. 539. The question
 presented is whether that statute pre-empts a state common law negligence
 action against the manufacturer of an allegedly defective medical device.
 Specifically, we must consider whether Lora Lohr, who was injured when
 her pacemaker failed, may rely on Florida common law to recover damages
 from Medtronic, Inc., the manufacturer of the device.
 Throughout our history the several States have exercised their police
 powers to protect the health and safety of their citizens. Because these
 are "primarily, and historically, ... matter[s] of local concern," Hillsborough
 County v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., the "States traditionally have had great latitude
 under their police powers to legislate as to the protection of the lives,
 limbs, health, comfort, and quiet of all persons." Metropolitan Life
 Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts (internal quotation marks omitted).
 Despite the prominence of the States in matters of public health
 and safety, in recent decades the Federal Government has played an increasingly
 significant role in the protection of the health of our people. Congress'
 first significant enactment in the field of public health was the Food
 and Drug Act of 1906, a broad prohibition against the manufacture or shipment
 in interstate commerce of any adulterated or misbranded food or drug. See
 34 Stat. 768; Regier, The Struggle for Federal Food and Drugs Legislation,
 1 Law. & Contemp. Probs. 1 (1933). Partly in response to an ongoing
 concern about radio and newspaper advertising making false therapeutic
 claims for both "quack machines" and legitimate devices such as surgical
 instruments and orthopedic shoes, in 1938 Congress broadened the coverage
 of the 1906 Act to include misbranded or adulterated medical devices and
 cosmetics. See Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 (FDCA), §§501,
 502, 52 Stat. 1049-1051; Cavers, The Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938:
 Its Legislative History and Its Substantive Provisions, 6 Law & Contemp.
 Probs. 2 (1939); H. R. Rep. No. 94-853, p. 6 (1976).
 While the FDCA provided for pre-market approval of new drugs,
 Cavers, 6 Law & Contemp. Probs., at 40, it did not authorize any control
 over the introduction of new medical devices, see S. Rep. No. 93-670, pp.
 1-2 (1974); H. R. Rep. 94-853, at 6. As technologies advanced and medicine
 relied to an increasing degree on a vast array of medical equipment "[f]rom
 bedpans to brainscans," [n.1]
 including kidney dialysis units, artificial heart valves, and heart pacemakers, [n.2]
 policymakers and the public became concerned about the increasingly severe
 injuries that resulted from the failure of such devices. See generally
 Finck, The Effectiveness of FDA Medical Device Regulation, 7 U. C. D. L.
 Rev. 293, 297-301 (1974); H. R. Rep. 94-853, at 7.
 In 1970, for example, the Dalkon Shield, an intrauterine contraceptive
 device, was introduced to the American public and throughout the world.
 Touted as a safe and effective contraceptive, the Dalkon Shield resulted
 in a disturbingly high percentage of inadvertent pregnancies, serious infections,
 and even, in a few cases, death. Id., at 8; Regulation of Medical
 Devices (Intrauterine Contraceptive Devices), Hearings before a Subcommittee
 of the House Committee on Government Operations, 93rd Cong., 1st Sess.
 (1973). In the early 1970's, several other devices, including catheters,
 artificial heart valves, defibrillators, and pacemakers (including pacemakers
 manufactured by petitioner Medtronic), attracted the attention of consumers,
 the FDA, and Congress as possible health risks. See Medical Device Amendments,
 1973, Hearings before the Subcommittee on Health of the Senate Committee
 on Labor and Public Welfare, 93rd Cong., 2d Sess., 270-361 (1973).
 In response to the mounting consumer and regulatory concern, Congress
 enacted the statute at issue here: the Medical Device Amendments of 1976
 (MDA or Act), 90 Stat. 539. The Act classifies medical devices in three
 categories based on the risk that they pose to the public. Devices that
 present no unreasonable risk of illness or injury are designated Class
 I and are subject only to minimal regulation by "general controls." 21
 U.S.C. § 360c(a)(1)(A). Devices that are potentially more harmful
 are designated Class II; although they may be marketed without advance
 approval, manufacturers of such devices must comply with federal performance
 regulations known as "special controls." §360c(a)(1)(B). Finally,
 devices that either "present a potential unreasonable risk of illness or
 injury," or which are "purported or represented to be for a use in supporting
 or sustaining human life or for a use which is of substantial importance
 in preventing impairment of human health," are designated Class III. §360c(a)(1)(C).
 Pacemakers are Class III devices. See 21
 CFR § 870.3610 (1995).
 Before a new Class III device may be introduced to the market,
 the manufacturer must provide the FDA with a "reasonable assurance" that
 the device is both safe and effective. See 21
 U.S.C. § 360e(d)(2). Despite its relatively innocuous phrasing,
 the process of establishing this "reasonable assurance," which is known
 as the "premarket approval," or "PMA" process, is a rigorous one. Manufacturers
 must submit detailed information regarding the safety and efficacy of their
 devices, which the FDA then reviews, spending an average of 1,200 hours
 on each submission. Hearings before the Subcommittee on Health and the
 Environment of the House Committee on Energy & Commerce, 100th Cong.,
 1st Sess. (Ser. No. 100-34), p. 384 (1987) (hereinafter 1987 Hearings);
 see generally Kahan, Premarket Approval Versus Premarket Notification:
 Different Routes to the Same Market, 39 Food Drug Cosm. L. J. 510, 512-514
 (1984).
 Not all, nor even most, Class III devices on the market today
 have received premarket approval because of two important exceptions to
 the PMA requirement. First, Congress realized that existing medical devices
 could not be withdrawn from the market while the FDA completed its PMA
 analysis for those devices. The statute therefore includes a "grandfathering"
 provision which allows pre-1976 devices to remain on the market without
 FDA approval until such time as the FDA initiates and completes the requisite
 PMA. See 21 U.S.C.
 § 360e(b)(1)(A); 21
 CFR § 814.1(c)(1). [n.3]
 Second, to prevent manufacturers of grandfathered devices from monopolizing
 the market while new devices clear the PMA hurdle, and to ensure that improvements
 to existing devices can be rapidly introduced into the market, the Act
 also permits devices that are "substantially equivalent" to pre-existing
 devices to avoid the PMA process. See 21
 U.S.C. § 360e(b)(1)(B).
 Although "substantially equivalent" Class III devices may be marketed
 without the rigorous PMA review, such new devices, as well as all new Class
 I and Class II devices, are subject to the requirements of §360(k).
 That section imposes a limited form of review on every manufacturer intending
 to market a new device by requiring it to submit a "premarket notification"
 to the FDA (the process is also known as a "§510(k) process," after
 the number of the section in the original Act). If the FDA concludes on
 the basis of the §510(k) notification that the device is "substantially
 equivalent" to a pre-existing device, it can be marketed without further
 regulatory analysis (at least until the FDA initiates the PMA process for
 the underlying pre-1976 device to which the new device is "substantially
 equivalent"). The §510(k) notification process is by no means comparable
 to the PMA process; in contrast to the 1,200 hours necessary to complete
 a PMA review, the §510(k) review is completed in an average of only
 20 hours. See 1987 Hearings, at 384. As one commentator noted, "[t]he attraction
 of substantial equivalence to manufacturers is clear. [Section] 510(k)
 notification requires little information, rarely elicits a negative response
 from the FDA, and gets processed very quickly." Adler, The 1976 Medical
 Device Amendments: A Step in the Right Direction Needs Another Step in
 the Right Direction, 43 Food Drug Cosm. L. J. 511, 516 (1988); see also
 Kahan, 39 Food Drug Cosm. L. J., at 514-519.
 Congress anticipated that the FDA would complete the PMA process
 for Class III devices relatively swiftly. But because of the substantial
 investment of time and energy necessary for the resolution of each PMA
 application, the ever increasing numbers of medical devices, and internal
 administrative and resource difficulties, the FDA simply could not keep
 up with the rigorous PMA process. As a result, the §510(k) premarket
 notification process became the means by which most new medical devices — including
 Class III devices — were approved for the market. In 1983, for instance,
 a House Report concluded that nearly 1,000 of approximately 1,100 Class
 III devices that had been introduced to the market since 1976 were admitted
 as "substantial equivalents" and without any PMA review. See Medical
 Device Regulation: The FDA's Neglected Child (Committee Print compiled
 for the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Committee
 on Energy and Commerce), Comm. Print 98-F, p. 34 (1983). This lopsidedness
 has apparently not evened out; despite an increasing effort by the FDA
 to consider the safety and efficacy of substantially equivalent devices,
 the House reported in 1990 that 80% of new Class III devices were being
 introduced to the market through the §510(k) process and without PMA
 review. H. R. Rep. No. 101-808, p. 14 (1990); see also D. Kessler, S. Pape,
 & D. Sundwall, The Federal Regulation of Medical Devices, 317 New England
 J. Med. 357, 359 (1987) (55 §510(k) notifications are filed for each
 PMA application; average FDA response to §510(k) notification is one
 fifth the response time to a PMA). [n.4]
As have so many other medical device manufacturers, petitioner Medtronic
 took advantage of §510(k)'s expedited process in October of 1982,
 when it notified FDA that it intended to market its Model 4011 pacemaker
 lead as a device that was "substantially equivalent" to devices already
 on the market. (The lead is the portion of a pacemaker that transmits the
 heartbeat steadying electrical signal from the "pulse generator" to the
 heart itself.) On November 30, 1982, the FDA found that the model was "substantially
 equivalent to devices introduced into interstate commerce" prior to the
 effective date of the Act, and advised Medtronic that it could therefore
 market its device subject only to the general control provisions of the
 Act, which could be found in the Code of Federal Regulations. See Respondent's
 Memorandum in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment in No. 93-482 (MD
 Fla., Nov. 1, 1993), Exh. A to Exh. 1 (Declaration of Charles H. Swanson)
 (hereinafter FDA Substantial Equivalence Letter). The agency emphasized,
 however, that this determination should not be construed as an endorsement
 of the pacemaker lead's safety. Ibid.
 Cross petitioner Lora Lohr is dependent on pacemaker technology
 for the proper functioning of her heart. In 1987 she was implanted with
 a Medtronic pacemaker equipped with one of the company's Model 4011 pacemaker
 leads. On December 30, 1990, the pacemaker failed, allegedly resulting
 in a "complete heart block" that required emergency surgery. According
 to her physician, a defect in the lead was the likely cause of the failure.
 In 1993 Lohr and her husband filed this action in a Florida state
 court. Their complaint contained both a negligence count and a strict liability
 count. The negligence count alleged a breach of Medtronic's "duty to use
 reasonable care in the design, manufacture, assembly, and sale of the subject
 pacemaker" in several respects, including the use of defective materials
 in the lead and a failure to warn or properly instruct the plaintiff or
 her physicians of the tendency of the pacemaker to fail, despite knowledge
 of other earlier failures. Complaint ¶5. The strict liability count
 alleged that the device was in a defective condition and unreasonably dangerous
 to foreseeable users at the time of its sale. Id., ¶11. ( A
 third count alleging breach of warranty was dismissed for failure to state
 a claim under Florida law.)
 Medtronic removed the case to Federal District Court, where it
 filed a motion for summary judgment arguing that both the negligence and
 strict liability claims were pre-empted by 21
 U.S.C. § 360k(a). That section, which is at the core of the dispute
 between the parties in this case, provides:
 "§ 360k. State and local requirements
 respecting devices
 "(a) General rule
 "Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, no State
 or political subdivision of a State may establish or continue in effect
 with respect to a device intended for human use any requirement--
 "(1) which is different from, or in addition to, any requirement
 applicable under this chapter to the device, and
 "(2) which relates to the safety or effectiveness of the device
 or to any other matter included in a requirement applicable to the device
 under this chapter." [n.5] The District Court initially denied Medtronic's motion, finding nothing
 in the statute to support the company's argument that the MDA entirely
 exempted from liability a manufacturer who had allegedly violated the FDA's
 regulations. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 5d. Not long after that decision,
 however, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit concluded
 that §360k required pre-emption of at least some common law claims
 brought against the manufacturer of a medical device. See Duncan
 v. Iolab Corp., 12 F. 3d 194 (1994). After reconsidering its ruling
 in light of Duncan, the District Court reversed its earlier decision
 and dismissed the Lohrs' entire complaint.
 The Court of Appeals reversed in part and affirmed in part. 56
 F. 3d 1335 (CA11 1995). Rejecting the Lohrs' broadest submission, it first
 decided that "common law actions are state requirements within the meaning
 of §360k(a)." Id., at 1342. It next held that pre-emption could
 not be avoided by merely alleging that the negligence flowed from a violation
 of federal standards. Id., at 1343. Then, after concluding that
 the term "requirements" in §360k(a) was unclear, it sought guidance
 from FDA's regulations regarding pre-emption. Those regulations provide
 that a state requirement is not pre-empted unless the FDA has established
 " `specific requirements applicable to a particular device.' " Id.,
 at 1344 (citing 21
 CFR § 808.1(d) (1995)). Under these regulations, the court concluded,
 it was not necessary that the federal regulation specifically deal with
 pacemakers, but only that the federal requirement "should, in some way,
 be `restricted by nature' to a particular process, procedure, or device
 and should not be completely open ended," 56 F. 3d, at 1346, and that the
 specific device at issue should be subject to its requirements.
 Under this approach, the Court concluded that the Lohrs' negligent
 design claims were not pre-empted. It rejected Medtronic's argument that
 the FDA's finding of "substantial equivalence" had any significance with
 respect to the pacemaker's safety, or that the FDA's continued surveillance
 of the device constituted a federal "requirement" that its design be maintained.
 Id., at 1347-1349. On the other hand, it concluded that the negligent
 manufacturing and failure to warn claims were pre-empted by FDA's general
 "good manufacturing practices" regulations, which establish general requirements
 for most steps in every device's manufacture, see id., at 1350;
 21
 CFR §§ 820.20-820.198 (1995), and by the FDA labeling regulations,
 which require devices to bear various warnings, see 56 F. 3d, at 1350-1351;
 21
 CFR § 801.109 (1995). The Court made a parallel disposition of
 the strict liability claims, holding that there was no pre-emption insofar
 as plaintiffs alleged an unreasonably dangerous design, but they could
 not revive the negligent manufacturing or failure to warn claims under
 a strict liability theory. 56 F. 3d, at 1351-1352.
 Medtronic filed a petition for certiorari seeking review of the
 Court of Appeals' decision insofar as it affirmed the District Court and
 the Lohrs filed a cross petition seeking review of the judgment insofar
 as it upheld the pre-emption defense. Because the Courts of Appeals are
 divided over the extent to which state common law claims are pre-empted
 by the MDA, [n.6]
 we granted both petitions. ___ (1996).
 As in Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., we are presented with the task of interpreting a statutory
 provision that expressly pre-empts state law. While the pre-emptive language
 of §360k(a) means that we need not go beyond that language to determine
 whether Congress intended the MDA to pre-empt at least some state law,
 see id., at 517, we must nonetheless "identify the domain expressly
 pre-empted" by that language. Ibid. Although our analysis of the
 scope of the pre-emption statute must begin with its text, see Gade
 v. National Solid Wastes Management Assn. (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring
 in judgment), our interpretation of that language does not occur in a contextual
 vacuum. Rather, that interpretation is informed by two presumptions about
 the nature of pre-emption. See ibid.
 First, because the States are independent sovereigns in our federal
 system, we have long presumed that Congress does not cavalierly pre-empt
 state law causes of action. In all pre-emption cases, and particularly
 in those in which Congress has "legislated ... in a field which the States
 have traditionally occupied," Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp.,
 , we "start with the assumption that the historic
 police powers of the States were not to be superseded by the Federal Act
 unless that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress." Id.,
 at 230; Hillsborough Cty., 471 U. S., at 715-716; cf. Fort Halifax
 Packing Co. v. Coyne. Although dissenting
 Justices have argued that this assumption should apply only to the question
 whether Congress intended any pre-emption at all, as opposed to questions
 concerning the scope of its intended invalidation of state law,
 see Cipollone, 505 U. S., at 545-546 (Scalia, J., concurring in
 judgment in part, and dissenting in part), we used a "presumption against
 the pre-emption of state police power regulations" to support a narrow
 interpretation of such an express command in Cipollone. Id.,
 at 518, 523. That approach is consistent with both federalism concerns
 and the historic primacy of state regulation of matters of health and safety.
 Second, our analysis of the scope of the statute's pre-emption
 is guided by our oft repeated comment, initially made in Retail Clerks
 v. Schermerhorn, that "[t]he purpose of Congress is the ultimate
 touchstone" in every pre-emption case. See, e.g., Cipollone,
 505 U. S., at 516; Gade, 505 U. S., at 96; Malone v. White
 Motor Corp.. As a result, any understanding of the scope of
 a pre-emption statute must rest primarily on "a fair understanding of congressional
 purpose." Cipollone, 505 U. S., at 530, n. 27 (opinion of Stevens,
 J.). Congress' intent, of course, primarily is discerned from the language
 of the pre-emption statute and the "statutory framework" surrounding it.
 Gade, 505 U. S., at 111 (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring
 in judgment). Also relevant, however, is the "structure and purpose of
 the statute as a whole," id., at 98 (opinion of O'Connor, J.), as
 revealed not only in the text, but through the reviewing court's reasoned
 understanding of the way in which Congress intended the statute and its
 surrounding regulatory scheme to affect business, consumers, and the law.
 With these considerations in mind, we turn first to a consideration
 of petitioner Medtronic's claim that the Court of Appeals should have found
 the entire action pre-empted and then to the merits of the Lohrs' cross
 petition.
 In its petition, Medtronic argues that the Court of Appeals erred by
 concluding that the Lohrs' claims alleging negligent design were not pre-empted
 by 21 U.S.C. §
 360k(a). That section provides that "no State or political subdivision
 of a State may establish or continue in effect with respect to a device
 intended for human use any requirement (1) which is different from, or
 in addition to, any requirement applicable under this chapter to the device,
 and (2) which relates to the safety or effectiveness of the device or to
 any other matter included in a requirement applicable to the device under
 this chapter." Medtronic suggests that any common law cause of action is
 a "requirement" which alters incentives and imposes duties "different from,
 or in addition to" the generic federal standards that the FDA has promulgated
 in response to mandates under the MDA. In essence, the company argues that
 the plain language of the statute pre-empts any and all common law claims
 brought by an injured plaintiff against a manufacturer of medical devices.
 Medtronic's argument is not only unpersuasive, it is implausible.
 Under Medtronic's view of the statute, Congress effectively precluded state
 courts from affording state consumers any protection from injuries resulting
 from a defective medical device. Moreover, because there is no explicit
 private cause of action against manufacturers contained in the MDA, and
 no suggestion that the Act created an implied private right of action,
 Congress would have barred most, if not all, relief for persons injured
 by defective medical devices. [n.7]
 Medtronic's construction of §360k would therefore have the perverse
 effect of granting complete immunity from design defect liability to an
 entire industry that, in the judgment of Congress, needed more stringent
 regulation in order "to provide for the safety and effectiveness of medical
 devices intended for human use," 90 Stat. 539 (preamble to Act). It is,
 to say the least, "difficult to believe that Congress would, without comment,
 remove all means of judicial recourse for those injured by illegal conduct,"
 Silkwood v. Kerr McGee Corp., and it would take language much plainer than
 the text of §360k to convince us that Congress intended that result.
 Furthermore, if Congress intended to preclude all common law causes
 of action, it chose a singularly odd word with which to do it. The statute
 would have achieved an identical result, for instance, if it had precluded
 any "remedy" under state law relating to medical devices. "Requirement"
 appears to presume that the State is imposing a specific duty upon the
 manufacturer, and although we have on prior occasions concluded that a
 statute pre-empting certain state "requirements" could also pre-empt common
 law damages claims, see Cipollone, 505 U. S., at 521-522 (opinion
 of Stevens, J.), that statute did not sweep nearly as broadly as Medtronic
 would have us believe that this statute does.
 The pre-emptive statute in Cipollone [n.8]
 was targeted at a limited set of state requirements — those "based on smoking
 and health"--and then only at a limited subset of the possible applications
 of those requirements — those involving the "advertising or promotion of
 any cigarettes the packages of which are labeled in conformity with the
 provisions of" the federal statute. See id., at 515. In that context,
 giving the term "requirement" its widest reasonable meaning did not have
 nearly the pre-emptive scope nor the effect on potential remedies that
 Medtronic's broad reading of the term would have in this case. The Court
 in Cipollone held that the petitioner in that case was able to maintain
 some common law actions using theories of the case that did not run afoul
 of the pre-emption statute. See id., at 524-530. Here, however,
 Medtronic's sweeping interpretation of the statute would require far greater
 interference with state legal remedies, producing a serious intrusion into
 state sovereignty while simultaneously wiping out the possibility of remedy
 for the Lohrs' alleged injuries. [n.9]
 Given the ambiguities in the statute and the scope of the preclusion that
 would occur otherwise, we cannot accept Medtronic's argument that by using
 the term-requirement," Congress clearly signaled its intent to deprive
 States of any role in protecting consumers from the dangers inherent in
 many medical devices.
 Other differences between this statute and the one in Cipollone
 further convince us that when Congress enacted §360k, it was primarily
 concerned with the problem of specific, conflicting State statutes and
 regulations rather than the general duties enforced by common law actions.
 Unlike the statute at issue in Cipollone, §360k refers to "requirements"
 many times throughout its text. In each instance, the word is linked with
 language suggesting that its focus is device specific enactments of positive
 law by legislative or administrative bodies, not the application of general
 rules of common law by judges and juries. For instance, subsections (a)(2)
 and (b) of the statute [n.10]
 also refer to "requirements"--but those "requirements" refer only to statutory
 and regulatory law that exists pursuant to the MDA itself, suggesting that
 the pre-empted "requirements" established or continued by States also refer
 primarily to positive enactments of state law. Moreover, in subsection
 (b) the FDA is given authority to exclude certain "requirements" from the
 scope of the pre-emption statute. Of the limited number of "exemptions"
 from pre-emption that the FDA has granted, none even remotely resemble
 common law claims. [n.11]
An examination of the basic purpose of the legislation as well as its
 history entirely supports our rejection of Medtronic's extreme position.
 The MDA was enacted "to provide for the safety and effectiveness of medical
 devices intended for human use." 90 Stat. 539. Medtronic asserts that the
 Act was also intended, however, to-protect innovations in device technology
 from being `stifled by unnecessary restrictions,' " Brief for Petitioners
 in No. 95-754, p. 3 (citing H. R. Rep. 94-853, at 12), and that this interest
 extended to the pre-emption of common law claims. While the Act certainly
 reflects some of these concerns, [n.12]
 the legislative history indicates that any fears regarding regulatory burdens
 were related more to the risk of additional federal and state regulation
 rather than the danger of preexisting duties under common law. See, e.g.,
 122 Cong. Rec. 5850 (Mar. 9, 1976) (statement of Rep. Collins) (opposing
 further "redundant and burdensome Federal requirements"); id., at
 5855 (discussing efforts taken in MDA to protect small businesses from
 the additional requirements of the Act). Indeed, nowhere in the materials
 relating to the Act's history have we discovered a reference to a fear
 that product liability actions would hamper the development of medical
 devices. To the extent that Congress was concerned about protecting the
 industry, that intent was manifested primarily through fewer substantive
 requirements under the Act, not the pre-emption provision; furthermore,
 any such concern was far outweighed by concerns about the primary issue
 motivating the MDA's enactment: the safety of those who use medical devices.
 The legislative history also confirms our understanding that §360(k)
 simply was not intended to pre-empt most, let alone all, general common
 law duties enforced by damages actions. There is, to the best of our knowledge,
 nothing in the hearings, the committee reports, or the debates suggesting
 that any proponent of the legislation intended a sweeping pre-emption of
 traditional common law remedies against manufacturers and distributors
 of defective devices. If Congress intended such a result, its failure even
 to hint at it is spectacularly odd, particularly since Members of both
 Houses were acutely aware of ongoing product liability litigation. [n.13]
 Along with the less than precise language of §360k(a), that silence
 surely indicates that at least some common law claims against medical device
 manufacturers may be maintained after the enactment of the MDA.
 Medtronic asserts several specific reasons why, even if §360k does
 not pre-empt all common law claims, it at least pre-empts the Lohrs' claims
 in this case. In contrast, the Lohrs argue that their entire complaint
 should survive a reasonable evaluation of the pre-emptive scope of §360k(a).
 First, the Lohrs claim that the Court of Appeals correctly held that their
 negligent design claims were not pre-empted because the §510(k) premarket
 notification process imposes no "requirement" on the design of Medtronic's
 pacemaker. Second, they suggest that even if the FDA's general rules regulating
 manufacturing practices and labeling are "requirements" that pre-empt different
 state requirements, §360k(a) does not pre-empt state rules that
 merely duplicate some or all of those federal requirements. Finally, they
 argue that because the State's general rules imposing common law duties
 upon Medtronic do not impose a requirement "with respect to a device,"
 they do not conflict with the FDA's general rules relating to manufacturing
 and labeling and are therefore not pre-empted.
 Design Claim
 The Court of Appeals concluded that the Lohrs' defective design
 claims were not pre-empted because the requirements with which the company
 had to comply were not sufficiently concrete to constitute a pre-empting
 federal requirement. Medtronic counters by pointing to the FDA's determination
 that Model 4011 is "substantially equivalent" to an earlier device as well
 as the agency's continuing authority to exclude the device from the market
 if its design is changed. These factors, Medtronic argues, amount to a
 specific, federally enforceable design requirement that cannot be affected
 by state law pressures such as those imposed on manufacturers subject to
 product liability suits.
 The company's defense exaggerates the importance of the §510(k)
 process and the FDA letter to the company regarding the pacemaker's substantial
 equivalence to a grandfathered device. As the court below noted, "[t]he
 510(k) process is focused on equivalence, not safety." 56F. 3d,
 at 1348. As a result, "substantial equivalence determinations provide little
 protection to the public. These determinations simply compare a post-1976
 device to a pre-1976 device to ascertain whether the later device is no
 more dangerous and no less effective than the earlier device. If the earlier
 device poses a severe risk or is ineffective, then the later device may
 also be risky or ineffective." Adler, 43 Food Drug Cosm. L. J., at 516.
 The design of the Model 4011, as with the design of pre-1976 and other
 "substantially equivalent" devices, has never been formally reviewed under
 the MDA for safety or efficacy.
 The FDA stressed this basic conclusion in its letter to Medtronic
 finding the 4011 lead "substantially equivalent" to devices already on
 the market. That letter only required Medtronic to comply with "general
 standards"--the lowest level of protection "applicable to all medical devices,"
 and including "listing of devices, good manufacturing practices, labeling,
 and the misbranding and adulteration provisions of the Act." It explicitly
 warned Medtronic that the letter did "not in any way denote official FDA
 approval of your device," and that "[a]ny representation that creates an
 impression of official approval of this device because of compliance with
 the premarket notification regulations is misleading and constitutes misbranding."
 FDA Substantial Equivalence Letter.
 Thus, even though the FDA may well examine §510(k) applications
 for Class III devices (as it examines the entire medical device industry)
 with a concern for the safety and effectiveness of the device, see Brief
 for Petitioner in No. 95-754, pp. 22-26, it did not "require" Medtronics'
 pacemaker to take any particular form for any particular reason; the agency
 simply allowed the pacemaker, as a device substantially equivalent to one
 that existed before 1976, to be marketed without running the gauntlet of
 the PMA process. In providing for this exemption to PMA review, Congress
 intended merely to give manufacturers the freedom to compete, to a limited
 degree, with and on the same terms as manufacturers of medical devices
 that existed prior to 1976. [n.14]
 There is no suggestion in either the statutory scheme or the legislative
 history that the §510(k) exemption process was intended to do anything
 other than maintain the status quo with respect to the marketing of existing
 medical devices and their substantial equivalents. That status quo included
 the possibility that the manufacturer of the device would have to defend
 itself against state law claims of negligent design. Given this background
 behind the "substantial equivalence" exemption, the fact that "[t]he purpose
 of Congress is the ultimate touchstone" in every pre-emption case, 505
 U. S., at 516 (internal quotation marks and citations omitted), and the
 presumption against pre-emption, the Court of Appeals properly concluded
 that the "substantial equivalence" provision did not pre-empt the Lohrs'
 design claims.
 Identity of Requirements Claims
 The Lohrs next suggest that even if "requirements" exist with
 respect to the manufacturing and labeling of the pacemaker, and even if
 we can also consider state law to impose a "requirement" under the Act,
 the state requirement is not pre-empted unless it is "different from, or
 in addition to," the federal requirement. §360k(a)(1). Although the
 precise contours of their theory of recovery have not yet been defined
 (the pre-emption issue was decided on the basis of the pleadings), it is
 clear that the Lohrs' allegations may include claims that Medtronic has,
 to the extent that they exist, violated FDA regulations. At least these
 claims, they suggest, can be maintained without being pre-empted by §360k,
 and we agree.
 Nothing in §360k denies Florida the right to provide a traditional
 damages remedy for violations of common law duties when those duties parallel
 federal requirements. Even if it may be necessary as a matter of Florida
 law to prove that those violations were the result of negligent conduct,
 or that they created an unreasonable hazard for users of the product, such
 additional elements of the state law cause of action would make the state
 requirements narrower, not broader, than the federal requirement. While
 such a narrower requirement might be "different from" the federal rules
 in a literal sense, such a difference would surely provide a strange reason
 for finding pre-emption of a state rule insofar as it duplicates the federal
 rule. The presence of a damages remedy does not amount to the additional
 or different "requirement" that is necessary under the statute; rather,
 it merely provides another reason for manufacturers to comply with identical
 existing "requirements" under federal law.
 The FDA regulations interpreting the scope of §360k's pre-emptive
 effect support the Lohrs' view, and our interpretation of the pre-emption
 statute is substantially informed by those regulations. The different views
 expressed by the Courts of Appeals regarding the appropriate scope of federal
 pre-emption under §360k demonstrate that the language of that section
 is not entirely clear. In addition, Congress has given the FDA a unique
 role in determining the scope of §360k's pre-emptive effect. Unlike
 the statute construed in Cipollone, for instance, pre-emption under
 the MDA does not arise directly as a result of the enactment of the statute;
 rather, in most cases a state law will be pre-empted only to the extent
 that the FDA has promulgated a relevant federal "requirement." Because
 the FDA is the federal agency to which Congress has delegated its authority
 to implement the provisions of the Act, [n.15]
 the agency is uniquely qualified to determine whether a particular form
 of state law "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution
 of the full purposes and objectives of Congress," Hines v. Davidowitz,
 , and, therefore, whether it should be pre-empted.
 For example, Congress explicitly delegated to the FDA the authority to
 exempt state regulations from the pre-emptive effect of the MDA — an authority
 that necessarily requires the FDA to assess the pre-emptive effect that
 the Act and its own regulations will have on state laws. See §360k(b).
 FDA regulations implementing that grant of authority establish a process
 by which States or other individuals may request an advisory opinion from
 the FDA regarding whether a particular state requirement is pre-empted
 by the statute. See 21
 CFR § 808.5 (1995). The ambiguity in the statute — and the congressional
 grant of authority to the agency on the matter contained within it — provide
 a "sound basis," post, at 2, for giving substantial weight to the
 agency's view of the statute. See Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural
 Resources Defense Council, Inc.; Hillsborough Cty., 471 U. S., at 714 (considering
 FDA understanding of pre-emptive effect of its regulations "dispositive").
 The regulations promulgated by the FDA expressly support the conclusion
 that §360k "does not preempt State or local requirements that are
 equal to, or substantially identical to, requirements imposed by or under
 the act." 21
 CFR § 808.1(d)(2) (1995); see also §808.5(b)(1)(i). [n.16]
 At this early stage in the litigation, there was no reason for the Court
 of Appeals to preclude altogether the Lohrs' manufacturing and labeling
 claims to the extent that they rest on claims that Medtronic negligently
 failed to comply with duties "equal to, or substantially identical to,
 requirements imposed" under federal law.
 Manufacturing and Labeling Claims
 Finally, the Lohrs suggest that with respect to the manufacturing
 and labeling claims, the Court of Appeals should have rejected Medtronic's
 pre-emption defense in full. The Court of Appeals believed that these claims
 would interfere with the consistent application of general federal regulations
 governing the labeling and manufacture of all medical devices, and therefore
 concluded that the claims were pre-empted altogether.
 The requirements identified by the Court of Appeals include labeling
 regulations which require manufacturers of every medical device, with a
 few limited exceptions, to include with the device a label containing "information
 for use, ... and any relevant hazards, contraindications, side effects,
 and precautions." 21
 CFR §§ 801.109(b) and (c) (1995). Similarly, manufacturers
 are required to comply with "Good Manufacturing Practices," or "GMP's,"
 which are set forth in 32 sections and less than 10 pages in the Code of
 Federal Regulations. [n.17]
 In certain circumstances, the Court of Appeals recognized, the FDA will
 enforce these general requirements against manufacturers that violate them.
 See 56 F. 3d, at 1350-1351.
 While admitting that these requirements exist, the Lohrs suggest
 that their general nature simply does not pre-empt claims alleging that
 the manufacturer failed to comply with other duties under state common
 law. In support of their claim, they note that §360k(a)(1) expressly
 states that a federal requirement must be "applicable to the device" in
 question before it has any pre-emptive effect. Because the labeling and
 manufacturing requirements are applicable to a host of different devices,
 they argue that they do not satisfy this condition. They further argue
 that because only state requirements "with respect to a device" may be
 pre-empted, and then only if the requirement "relates to the safety or
 effectiveness of the device or to any other matter included in a requirement
 applicable to the device," section 360k(a) mandates pre-emption only where
 there is a conflict between a specific state requirement and a federal
 requirement "applicable to" the same device.
 The Lohrs' theory is supported by the FDA regulations, which provide
 that state requirements are pre-empted "only" when the FDA has established
 "specific counterpart regulations or ... other specific requirements
 applicable to a particular device." 21
 CFR § 808.1(d) (1995). [n.18]
 They further note that the statute is not intended to pre-empt "State or
 local requirements of general applicability where the purpose of the requirement
 relates either to other products in addition to devices ... or to unfair
 trade practices in which the requirements are not limited to devices."
 §808.1(d)(1). The regulations specifically provide, as examples of
 permissible general requirements, that general electrical codes and the
 Uniform Commercial Code warranty of fitness would not be pre-empted. See
 ibid. The regulations even go so far as to state that §360k(a)
 generally "does not preempt a state or local requirement prohibiting the
 manufacture of adulterated or misbranded devices" unless "such a prohibition
 has the effect of establishing a substantive requirement for a specific
 device." §808.1(d)(6)(ii). Furthermore, under its authority to grant
 exemptions to the pre-emptive effect of §360k(a), the FDA has never
 granted, nor, to the best of our knowledge, even been asked to consider
 granting, an exemption for a state law of general applicability; all 22
 existing exemptions apply to excruciatingly specific state requirements
 regarding the sale of hearing aids. See §§808.53-808.101.
 Although we do not believe that this statutory and regulatory
 language necessarily precludes "general" federal requirements from ever
 pre-empting state requirements, or "general" state requirements from ever
 being pre-empted, see Part VI, infra, it is impossible to ignore
 its overarching concern that pre-emption occur only where a particular
 state requirement threatens to interfere with a specific federal interest.
 State requirements must be "with respect to" medical devices and "different
 from, or in addition to" federal requirements. State requirements must
 also relate "to the safety or effectiveness of the device or to any other
 matter included in a requirement applicable to the device," and the regulations
 provide that state requirements of "general applicability" are not pre-empted
 except where they have "the effect of establishing a substantive requirement
 for a specific device." Moreover, federal requirements must be "applicable
 to the device" in question, and, according to the regulations, pre-empt
 state law only if they are "specific counterpart regulations" or "specific"
 to a "particular device." The statute and regulations, therefore, require
 a careful comparison between the allegedly pre-empting federal requirement
 and the allegedly pre-empted state requirement to determine whether they
 fall within the intended pre-emptive scope of the statute and regulations. [n.19]
Such a comparison mandates a conclusion that the Lohrs' common law claims
 are not pre-empted by the federal labeling and manufacturing requirements.
 The generality of those requirements make this quite unlike a case in which
 the Federal Government has weighed the competing interests relevant to
 the particular requirement in question, reached an unambiguous conclusion
 about how those competing considerations should be resolved in a particular
 case or set of cases, and implemented that conclusion via a specific mandate
 on manufacturers or producers. Rather, the federal requirements reflect
 important but entirely generic concerns about device regulation generally,
 not the sort of concerns regarding a specific device or field of device
 regulation which the statute or regulations were designed to protect from
 potentially contradictory state requirements.
 Similarly, the general state common law requirements in this case were
 not specifically developed "with respect to" medical devices. Accordingly,
 they are not the kinds of requirements that Congress and the FDA feared
 would impede the ability of federal regulators to implement and enforce
 specific federal requirements. The legal duty that is the predicate for
 the Lohrs' negligent manufacturing claim is the general duty of every manufacturer
 to use due care to avoid foreseeable dangers in its products. Similarly,
 the predicate for the failure to warn claim is the general duty to inform
 users and purchasers of potentially dangerous items of the risks involved
 in their use. These general obligations are no more a threat to federal
 requirements than would be a state law duty to comply with local fire prevention
 regulations and zoning codes, or to use due care in the training and supervision
 of a workforce. These state requirements therefore escape pre-emption,
 not because the source of the duty is a judge made common law rule, but
 rather because their generality leaves them outside the category of requirements
 that §360k envisioned to be "with respect to" specific devices such
 as pacemakers. As a result, none of the Lohrs' claims based on allegedly
 defective manufacturing or labeling are pre-empted by the MDA.
 In their cross petition, the Lohrs present
 a final argument, suggesting that common law duties are never "requirements"
 within the meaning of §360k and that the statute therefore never pre-empts
 common law actions. The Lohrs point out that our holding in Cipollone
 is not dispositive of this issue, for as Part IV, supra, suggests,
 there are significant textual and historical differences between the Cipollone
 statute and §360k, and the meaning of words must always be informed
 by the environment within which they are situated. We do not think that
 the issue is resolved by the FDA regulation suggesting that §360k
 is applicable to those requirements "having the force and effect of law"
 that are "established by ... court decision," 21
 CFR § 808.1(b) (1995); that reference, it appears, was intended
 to refer to court decisions construing state statutes or regulations.
 See 42 Fed. Reg. 30383, 30385 (June 14, 1977); Brief for Petitioners in
 No. 95-886, at 26, n. 7.
 Nevertheless, we do not respond directly to this argument for
 two reasons. First, since none of the Lohrs' claims is pre-empted in this
 case, we need not resolve hypothetical cases that may arise in the future.
 Second, given the critical importance of device specificity in our (and
 the FDA's) construction of §360k, it is apparent that few, if any,
 common law duties have been pre-empted by this statute. It will be rare
 indeed for a court hearing a common law cause of action to issue a decree
 that has "the effect of establishing a substantive requirement for a specific
 device." 21
 CFR § 808.1(d)(6)(ii) (1995). Until such a case arises, we see
 no need to determine whether the statute explicitly pre-empts such a claim.
 Even then, the issue may not need to be resolved if the claim would also
 be pre-empted under conflict pre-emption analysis, see Freightliner
 Corp. v. Myrick___, ___ (1995) (slip op., at 7-8).
 Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed insofar
 as it held that any of the claims were pre-empted and affirmed insofar
 as it rejected the pre-emption defense. The case is remanded for further
 proceedings.
 It is so ordered. Notes
1 Medical
 Device Regulation: The FDA's Neglected Child (Committee Print compiled
 for the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Committee
 on Energy and Commerce), Comm. Print 98-F, p. 1 (1983).
 2 S.
 Rep. No. 94-33, p. 5 (1975).
 3 The
 FDA has not yet initiated nor suggested the initiation of a PMA process
 for pacemakers or most other grandfathered devices. But see 60 Fed. Reg.
 41984, 41986 (1995) (pursuant to Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, 104
 Stat. 4511, calling for submission of information by February 1997 which
 may lead the FDA to reclassify or initiate PMA process at some time in
 the future for implantable pacemaker pulse generators and lead adapters).
 4 In
 1990, Congress enacted amendments to the MDA which were designed to reduce
 the FDA's reliance on the §510(k) process while continuing to ensure
 that particularly risky devices received full PMA review. See Safe Medical
 Devices Act of 1990.
 5 Subsection
 (b) of the statute authorizes the FDA to grant exemptions to state requirements
 that would otherwise be pre-empted by subsection (a). Section
 360k(b) provides:
 "(b) Exempt requirements
 "Upon application of a State or a political subdivision thereof,
 the Secretary may, by regulation promulgated after notice and opportunity
 for an oral hearing, exempt from subsection (a) of this section, under
 such conditions as may be prescribed in such regulation, a requirement
 of such State or political subdivision applicable to a device intended
 for human use if--
 "(1) the requirement is more stringent than a requirement under
 this chapter which would be applicable to the device if an exemption were
 not in effect under this subsection; or
 "(2) the requirement--
 "(A) is required by compelling local conditions, and
 "(B) compliance with the requirement would not cause the device
 to be in violation of any applicable requirement under this chapter."
 To carry out this grant of authority, the FDA has issued regulations
 under the statute which both construe the scope of §360k(a) and address
 the instances in which the FDA will grant exemptions to its pre-emptive
 effect. See 21
 CFR § 808.1 (1995); infra, n. 18.
 We note that although it is the FDA that exercises this authority,
 the Act gives that authority directly to the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services, who subsequently delegated her authority to the FDA. See, e.g.,
 21 U.S.C. §
 360k(b) ("the Secretary may" exempt state requirements), §321(d)
 ("Secretary" defined as "the Secretary of Health and Human Services").
 Under the FDCA, the Secretary is vested with "[t]he authority to promulgate
 regulations for the efficient enforcement of" the Act. 21
 U.S.C. § 371(a).
 6 See,
 e.g., English v. Mentor Corp., 67 F. 3d 477 (CA3 1995)
 (§510(k) process creates pre-emptive "requirements"); Feldt
 v. Mentor Corp., 61 F. 3d 431 (CA5 1995) (§510(k) process does
 not create pre-emptive "requirements"); Michael v. Shiley Inc.,
 46 F. 3d 1316 (CA3 1995) (claim alleging violation of federal requirement
 not pre-empted); 56 F. 3d 1335 (CA11 1995) (case below) (claim alleging
 violation of federal requirement may be pre-empted; §510(k) process
 may create pre-emptive requirements; common law claims covered by §360k(a));
 Kennedy v. Collagen Corp., 67 F. 3d 1453 (CA9 1995) (common
 law claims not covered at all by §360k(a)).
 7 The
 FDA's authority to require manufacturers to recall, replace, or refund
 defective devices is of little use to injured plaintiffs, since there is
 no indication that the right is available to private parties, the remedy
 would not extend to recovery for compensatory damages, and the authority
 is rarely invoked, if at all. See Adler, The 1976 Medical Device Amendments:
 A Step in the Right Direction Needs Another Step in the Right Direction,
 43 Food Drug Cosm. L. J. 511, 526-527 (1988).
 8 There
 were actually two pre-emptive statutes at issue: The first, enacted in
 1965, provided that "[n]o statement relating to smoking and health . .
 . shall be required" on any cigarette package or in any cigarette advertising.
 See Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S., at 514.
 That provision, the Court concluded, did not pre-empt any of the petitioner's
 common law claims. Id., at 518-520. In 1969, Congress superseded
 the 1965 pre-emption statute with part of the Public Health Cigarette Smoking
 Act of 1969, which provided that "[n]o requirement or prohibition based
 on smoking and health shall be imposed under State law with respect to
 the advertising or promotion of any cigarettes the packages of which are
 labeled in conformity with the provisions of this Act." Id., at
 515. The bulk of Cipollone's analysis involved this later statute;
 unless otherwise stated, it is this statute to which we refer in subsequent
 references to the pre-emptive statute in Cipollone.
 9 Unlike
 §360k, the pre-emptive effect of the statute in Cipollone was
 not dependent on the issuance of any agency regulations. The territory
 exclusively occupied by federal law was defined in the text of the statute
 itself; that text specified the precise warning to smokers that Congress
 deemed both necessary and sufficient. In the MDA, no such specifics exist
 until the FDA provides them. See also infra, at 24 (reliance on
 the FDA's interpretation of §360k warranted, inter alia, because
 of the FDA's role in the administration of §360k). Moreover, the statute
 in Cipollone was clearly intended to have a broader pre-emptive
 effect than its 1965 predecessor. See 505 U. S., at 515, 520-521.
 10 The
 text of the statute is quoted supra, at 9, and n. 5.
 11 All
 22 exemptions at 21
 CFR §§ 808.53-808.101 (1995) are exemptions for state statutes
 and regulations regarding the sale of hearing aids.
 12 Special
 statutory exemptions, for example, permit the FDA (with various oversight
 provisions) to allow investigative, experimental devices to be used in
 commerce without either PMA review or "substantial equivalence." See 21
 U.S.C. § 360j(g); 21 CFR pt. 813 (1995). Moreover, the very existence
 of the pre-emption statute demonstrates some concern that competing state
 requirements may unduly interfere with the market for medical devices.
 13 Furthermore,
 if Congress had intended the MDA to work this dramatic change in the availability
 of state law remedies, one would expect some reference to that change in
 the extensive contemporary reviews of the legislation. We have been able
 to find no such reference. See, e.g., Lesparre, Industry Spokesman
 Comments on Medical Device Amendments of 1976, 50 Hospitals 99, 103 (Sept.
 16, 1976); A. Levine, Device Failure and the Plaintiff's Lawyer, in Proceedings
 of the Second Annual AAMI/FDA Conference on Medical Device Regulation 54
 (1975); Medical Device Amendments of 1975, Hearings Before the Subcommittee
 on Health and the Environment of the House Committee on Interstate and
 Foreign Commerce, Ser. No. 94-39, 94th Cong., 1st Sess., 271 (1975) (statement
 of Anita Johnson, Public Citizen's Health Research Group) (arguing that
 the pre-emption provision should not be included, but making no mention
 of common law, and specifically discussing only a positive California enactment
 regarding the safety of intrauterine contraceptive devices); Medical Devices
 and Equipment Liability Avoidance (Frost & Sullivan pub. June 1977)
 (comprehensive 2 — volume, 600 — page review of published medical device
 product liability cases from 1910 to 1976, suggesting nowhere that MDA
 had mooted or even altered the longstanding ability of plaintiffs to seek
 and receive damages awards under state law).
 14 As
 the FDA Commissioner put it in 1982, "the 510(k) provision of the law is
 a procompetition mechanism that permits firms to make and quickly market
 me too versions of pre-1976 devices. The Congress apparently believed that
 a firm whose device happened to be on the market before enactment of the
 amendments and was never subject to preclearance by FDA should not enjoy
 a lengthy monopoly at the expense of other firms and ultimately the consumer."
 FDA Oversight: Medical Devices, Hearing before the Subcommittee on Oversight
 and Investigations of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, 97th
 Cong., 2d Sess., 9 (1982). See also Kahan, Premarket Approval Versus Premarket
 Notification: Different Routes to the Same Market, 39 Food Drug Cosm. L.
 J. 510, 514-515 (1984); D. Kessler, S. Pape, & D. Sundwall, The Federal
 Regulation of Medical Devices, 317 New England J. Med. 357, 359 (1987).
 15 See
 n. 5, supra; 21
 U.S.C. § 371(a).
 16 We
 also note that the agency permits manufacturers of devices that have received
 premarket approval to make certain labeling, quality control, and manufacturing
 changes which would "enhance[] the safety of the device or the safety in
 the use of the device" without prior FDA approval. See 21
 CFR §§ 814.39(d)(1) and (2) (1995).
 17 Some
 GMP's include the duty to institute a "quality assurance program," §820.5,
 to have an "adequate organizational structure," §820.20, to ensure
 that personnel in contact with a device are "clean, healthy, and suitably
 attired" where such matters are relevant to the device's safety, §820.25,
 and to have buildings, environmental controls, and equipment of a quality
 adequate to produce a safe product, see §§820.40, 820.46, 820.60.
 18 FDA's
 narrow understanding of the scope of §360k(a) is obvious from the
 full text of the regulation, which provides, in relevant part:
 %(d) State or local requirements are preempted only when the Food
 and Drug Administration has established specific counterpart regulations
 or there are other specific requirements applicable to a particular device
 under the act, thereby making any existing divergent State or local requirements
 applicable to the device different from, or in addition to, the specific
 Food and Drug Administration requirements. There are other State or local
 requirements that affect devices that are not preempted by section 521(a)
 of the act because they are not `requirements applicable to a device' within
 the meaning of section 521(a) of the act. The following are examples of
 State or local requirements that are not regarded as preempted by section
 521 of the act:
 "(1) Section 521(a) does not preempt State or local requirements
 of general applicability where the purpose of the requirement relates either
 to other products in addition to devices (e.g., requirements such as general
 electrical codes, and the Uniform Commercial Code (warranty of fitness)),
 or to unfair trade practices in which the requirements are not limited
 to devices.
 "(2) Section 521(a) does not preempt State or local requirements
 that are equal to, or substantially identical to, requirements imposed
 by or under the act.
 ... . . "(6)(i) Section 521(a) does not preempt State or local requirements
 respecting general enforcement, e.g., requirements that State inspection
 be permitted of factory records concerning all devices ... .
 "(ii) Generally, section 521(a) does not preempt a State or local
 requirement prohibiting the manufacture of adulterated or misbranded devices.
 Where, however, such a prohibition has the effect of establishing a substantive
 requirement for a specific device, e.g., a specific labeling requirement,
 then the prohibition [may] be preempted." 21
 CFR § 808.1(d) (1995).
 19 A
 plurality of this Court concluded in Cipollone that a similar analysis
 was required under the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act of 1969. That
 act pre-empted requirements and prohibitions based on smoking and health
 "imposed under State law with respect to the advertising or promotion"
 of cigarettes in packages that were labeled in conformity with the that
 act. 505 U. S., at 515. We held that the petitioner's fraudulent misrepresentation
 claims, including those based on allegedly false statements made in advertisements,
 were not pre-empted because they were "predicated not on a duty `based
 on smoking and health' but rather on a more general obligation — the duty
 not to deceive." Id., at 528-529. The general common law duty "not
 to make fraudulent statements" was not within the specific category of
 requirements or prohibitions based on smoking and health imposed under
 State law "with respect to the advertising or promotion" of cigarettes
 that were pre-empted by the 1969 statute. Id., at 529.
 If anything, the language of the MDA's pre-emption statute and
 its counterpart regulations require an even more searching inquiry into
 the relationship between the federal requirement and the state requirement
 at issue than was true under the statute in Cipollone.